<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-GB" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: http://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>Chapter 10: The Lobster Quadrille</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-10" epub:type="chapter">
			<h2 epub:type="title">
				<span epub:type="z3998:roman">X</span>
				<span class="subtitle" epub:type="subtitle">The Lob­ster Quad­rille</span>
			</h2>
			<p>The Mock Turtle sighed deeply, and drew the back of one flap­per across his eyes. He looked at Alice, and tried to speak, but for a minute or two sobs choked his voice. “Same as if he had a bone in his throat,” said the Gryphon: and it set to work shak­ing him and punch­ing him in the back. At last the Mock Turtle re­covered his voice, and, with tears run­ning down his cheeks, he went on again:—</p>
			<p>“You may not have lived much un­der the sea—” (“I haven’t,” said Alice)—“and per­haps you were never even in­tro­duced to a lob­ster—” (Alice began to say “I once tasted—” but checked her­self hast­ily, and said “No, never”) “—so you can have no idea what a de­light­ful thing a Lob­ster Quad­rille is!”</p>
			<p>“No, in­deed,” said Alice. “What sort of a dance is it?”</p>
			<p>“Why,” said the Gryphon, “you first form into a line along the sea­shore—”</p>
			<p>“Two lines!” cried the Mock Turtle. “Seals, turtles, sal­mon, and so on; then, when you’ve cleared all the jelly­fish out of the way—”</p>
			<p>“<em>That</em> gen­er­ally takes some time,” in­ter­rup­ted the Gryphon.</p>
			<p>“—you ad­vance twice—”</p>
			<p>“Each with a lob­ster as a part­ner!” cried the Gryphon.</p>
			<p>“Of course,” the Mock Turtle said: “ad­vance twice, set to part­ners—”</p>
			<p>“—change lob­sters, and re­tire in same or­der,” con­tin­ued the Gryphon.</p>
			<p>“Then, you know,” the Mock Turtle went on, “you throw the—”</p>
			<p>“The lob­sters!” shouted the Gryphon, with a bound into the air.</p>
			<p>“—as far out to sea as you can—”</p>
			<p>“Swim after them!” screamed the Gryphon.</p>
			<p>“Turn a somer­sault in the sea!” cried the Mock Turtle, caper­ing wildly about.</p>
			<p>“Change lob­sters again!” yelled the Gryphon at the top of its voice.</p>
			<p>“Back to land again, and that’s all the first fig­ure,” said the Mock Turtle, sud­denly drop­ping his voice; and the two creatures, who had been jump­ing about like mad things all this time, sat down again very sadly and quietly, and looked at Alice.</p>
			<p>“It must be a very pretty dance,” said Alice tim­idly.</p>
			<p>“Would you like to see a little of it?” said the Mock Turtle.</p>
			<p>“Very much in­deed,” said Alice.</p>
			<p>“Come, let’s try the first fig­ure!” said the Mock Turtle to the Gryphon. “We can do without lob­sters, you know. Which shall sing?”</p>
			<p>“Oh, <em>you</em> sing,” said the Gryphon. “I’ve for­got­ten the words.”</p>
			<p>So they began sol­emnly dan­cing round and round Alice, every now and then tread­ing on her toes when they passed too close, and wav­ing their fore­paws to mark the time, while the Mock Turtle sang this, very slowly and sadly:—</p>
			<blockquote class="z3998-song" epub:type="z3998:song">
				<p class="first-child">
					<span>“ ‘Will you walk a little faster?’ said a whit­ing to a snail.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>‘There’s a por­poise close be­hind us, and he’s tread­ing on my tail.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>See how eagerly the lob­sters and the turtles all ad­vance!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They are wait­ing on the shingle—will you come and join the dance?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Will you, won’t you, will you, won’t you, will you join the dance?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Will you, won’t you, will you, won’t you, won’t you join the dance?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>You can really have no no­tion how de­light­ful it will be,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When they take us up and throw us, with the lob­sters, out to sea!’</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But the snail replied ‘Too far, too far!’ and gave a look askance—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Said he thanked the whit­ing kindly, but he would not join the dance.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Would not, could not, would not, could not, would not join the dance.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Would not, could not, would not, could not, could not join the dance.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>‘What mat­ters it how far we go?’ his scaly friend replied.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>‘There is an­other shore, you know, upon the other side.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The fur­ther off from Eng­land the nearer is to France—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then turn not pale, be­loved snail, but come and join the dance.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Will you, won’t you, will you, won’t you, will you join the dance?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Will you, won’t you, will you, won’t you, won’t you join the dance?’ ”</span>
				</p>
			</blockquote>
			<p>“Thank you, it’s a very in­ter­est­ing dance to watch,” said Alice, feel­ing very glad that it was over at last: “and I do so like that curi­ous song about the whit­ing!”</p>
			<p>“Oh, as to the whit­ing,” said the Mock Turtle, “they—you’ve seen them, of course?”</p>
			<p>“Yes,” said Alice, “I’ve of­ten seen them at dinn—” she checked her­self hast­ily.</p>
			<p>“I don’t know where Dinn may be,” said the Mock Turtle, “but if you’ve seen them so of­ten, of course you know what they’re like.”</p>
			<p>“I be­lieve so,” Alice replied thought­fully. “They have their tails in their mouths—and they’re all over crumbs.”</p>
			<p>“You’re wrong about the crumbs,” said the Mock Turtle: “crumbs would all wash off in the sea. But they <em>have</em> their tails in their mouths; and the reason is—” here the Mock Turtle yawned and shut his eyes.—“Tell her about the reason and all that,” he said to the Gryphon.</p>
			<p>“The reason is,” said the Gryphon, “that they <em>would</em> go with the lob­sters to the dance. So they got thrown out to sea. So they had to fall a long way. So they got their tails fast in their mouths. So they couldn’t get them out again. That’s all.”</p>
			<p>“Thank you,” said Alice, “it’s very in­ter­est­ing. I never knew so much about a whit­ing be­fore.”</p>
			<p>“I can tell you more than that, if you like,” said the Gryphon. “Do you know why it’s called a whit­ing?”</p>
			<p>“I never thought about it,” said Alice. “Why?”</p>
			<p>“<em>It does the boots and shoes.</em>” the Gryphon replied very sol­emnly.</p>
			<p>Alice was thor­oughly puzzled. “Does the boots and shoes!” she re­peated in a won­der­ing tone.</p>
			<p>“Why, what are <em>your</em> shoes done with?” said the Gryphon. “I mean, what makes them so shiny?”</p>
			<p>Alice looked down at them, and con­sidered a little be­fore she gave her an­swer. “They’re done with black­ing, I be­lieve.”</p>
			<p>“Boots and shoes un­der the sea,” the Gryphon went on in a deep voice, “are done with a whit­ing. Now you know.”</p>
			<p>“And what are they made of?” Alice asked in a tone of great curi­os­ity.</p>
			<p>“Soles and eels, of course,” the Gryphon replied rather im­pa­tiently: “any shrimp could have told you that.”</p>
			<p>“If I’d been the whit­ing,” said Alice, whose thoughts were still run­ning on the song, “I’d have said to the por­poise, ‘Keep back, please: we don’t want <em>you</em> with us!’ ”</p>
			<p>“They were ob­liged to have him with them,” the Mock Turtle said: “no wise fish would go any­where without a por­poise.”</p>
			<p>“Wouldn’t it really?” said Alice in a tone of great sur­prise.</p>
			<p>“Of course not,” said the Mock Turtle: “why, if a fish came to <em>me</em>, and told me he was go­ing a jour­ney, I should say ‘With what por­poise?’ ”</p>
			<p>“Don’t you mean ‘pur­pose’?” said Alice.</p>
			<p>“I mean what I say,” the Mock Turtle replied in an of­fen­ded tone. And the Gryphon ad­ded, “Come, let’s hear some of <em>your</em> ad­ven­tures.”</p>
			<p>“I could tell you my ad­ven­tures—be­gin­ning from this morn­ing,” said Alice a little tim­idly: “but it’s no use go­ing back to yes­ter­day, be­cause I was a dif­fer­ent per­son then.”</p>
			<p>“Ex­plain all that,” said the Mock Turtle.</p>
			<p>“No, no! The ad­ven­tures first,” said the Gryphon in an im­pa­tient tone: “ex­plan­a­tions take such a dread­ful time.”</p>
			<p>So Alice began telling them her ad­ven­tures from the time when she first saw the White Rab­bit. She was a little nervous about it just at first, the two creatures got so close to her, one on each side, and opened their eyes and mouths so <em>very</em> wide, but she gained cour­age as she went on. Her listen­ers were per­fectly quiet till she got to the part about her re­peat­ing “You are old, Father Wil­liam,” to the Cater­pil­lar, and the words all com­ing dif­fer­ent, and then the Mock Turtle drew a long breath, and said, “That’s very curi­ous.”</p>
			<p>“It’s all about as curi­ous as it can be,” said the Gryphon.</p>
			<p>“It all came dif­fer­ent!” the Mock Turtle re­peated thought­fully. “I should like to hear her try and re­peat some­thing now. Tell her to be­gin.” He looked at the Gryphon as if he thought it had some kind of au­thor­ity over Alice.</p>
			<p>“Stand up and re­peat ‘ ’<em>Tis the voice of the slug­gard</em>,’ ” said the Gryphon.</p>
			<p>“How the creatures or­der one about, and make one re­peat les­sons!” thought Alice; “I might as well be at school at once.” However, she got up, and began to re­peat it, but her head was so full of the Lob­ster Quad­rille, that she hardly knew what she was say­ing, and the words came very queer in­deed:—</p>
			<blockquote class="z3998-song" epub:type="z3998:song">
				<p class="first-child">
					<span>“ ’Tis the voice of the Lob­ster; I heard him de­clare,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>‘You have baked me too brown, I must sugar my hair.’</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As a duck with its eye­lids, so he with his nose</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Trims his belt and his but­tons, and turns out his toes.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>When the sands are all dry, he is gay as a lark,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And will talk in con­temp­tu­ous tones of the Shark,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But when the tide rises and sharks are around,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His voice has a timid and trem­u­lous sound.</span>
				</p>
			</blockquote>
			<p>“That’s dif­fer­ent from what I used to say when I was a child,” said the Gryphon.</p>
			<p>“Well, I never heard it be­fore,” said the Mock Turtle; “but it sounds un­com­mon non­sense.”</p>
			<p>Alice said noth­ing; she had sat down with her face in her hands, won­der­ing if any­thing would <em>ever</em> hap­pen in a nat­ural way again.</p>
			<p>“I should like to have it ex­plained,” said the Mock Turtle.</p>
			<p>“She can’t ex­plain it,” said the Gryphon hast­ily. “Go on with the next verse.”</p>
			<p>“But about his toes?” the Mock Turtle per­sisted. “How <em>could</em> he turn them out with his nose, you know?”</p>
			<p>“It’s the first po­s­i­tion in dan­cing,” Alice said; but was dread­fully puzzled by the whole thing, and longed to change the sub­ject.</p>
			<p>“Go on with the next verse,” the Gryphon re­peated im­pa­tiently: “it be­gins ‘I passed by his garden.’ ”</p>
			<p>Alice did not dare to dis­obey, though she felt sure it would all come wrong, and she went on in a trem­bling voice:—</p>
			<blockquote class="z3998-song" epub:type="z3998:song">
				<p class="first-child">
					<span>“I passed by his garden, and marked, with one eye,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>How the Owl and the Pan­ther were shar­ing a pie—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Pan­ther took pie­crust, and gravy, and meat,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>While the Owl had the dish as its share of the treat.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When the pie was all fin­ished, the Owl, as a boon,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Was kindly per­mit­ted to pocket the spoon:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>While the Pan­ther re­ceived knife and fork with a growl,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And con­cluded the ban­quet—”</span>
				</p>
			</blockquote>
			<p>“What <em>is</em> the use of re­peat­ing all that stuff,” the Mock Turtle in­ter­rup­ted, “if you don’t ex­plain it as you go on? It’s by far the most con­fus­ing thing I ever heard!”</p>
			<p>“Yes, I think you’d bet­ter leave off,” said the Gryphon: and Alice was only too glad to do so.</p>
			<p>“Shall we try an­other fig­ure of the Lob­ster Quad­rille?” the Gryphon went on. “Or would you like the Mock Turtle to sing you a song?”</p>
			<p>“Oh, a song, please, if the Mock Turtle would be so kind,” Alice replied, so eagerly that the Gryphon said, in a rather of­fen­ded tone, “Hm! No ac­count­ing for tastes! Sing her ‘Turtle Soup,’ will you, old fel­low?”</p>
			<p>The Mock Turtle sighed deeply, and began, in a voice some­times choked with sobs, to sing this:—</p>
			<blockquote class="z3998-song" epub:type="z3998:song">
				<p class="first-child">
					<span>“Beau­ti­ful Soup, so rich and green,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Wait­ing in a hot tur­een!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who for such dain­ties would not stoop?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Soup of the even­ing, beau­ti­ful Soup!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Soup of the even­ing, beau­ti­ful Soup!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Beau-ooti­ful Soo-oop!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Beau-ooti­ful Soo-oop!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Soo—oop of the e-e-even­ing,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Beau­ti­ful, beau­ti­ful Soup!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“Beau­ti­ful Soup! Who cares for fish,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Game, or any other dish?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who would not give all else for two</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Penny­worth only of beau­ti­ful Soup?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Penny­worth only of beau­ti­ful Soup?</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Beau-ooti­ful Soo-oop!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Beau-ooti­ful Soo-oop!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Soo—oop of the e-e-even­ing,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Beau­ti­ful, beauti-<b>ful soup</b>!”</span>
				</p>
			</blockquote>
			<p>“Chorus again!” cried the Gryphon, and the Mock Turtle had just be­gun to re­peat it, when a cry of “The trial’s be­gin­ning!” was heard in the dis­tance.</p>
			<p>“Come on!” cried the Gryphon, and, tak­ing Alice by the hand, it hur­ried off, without wait­ing for the end of the song.</p>
			<p>“What trial is it?” Alice panted as she ran; but the Gryphon only answered “Come on!” and ran the faster, while more and more faintly came, car­ried on the breeze that fol­lowed them, the mel­an­choly words:—</p>
			<blockquote class="z3998-song" epub:type="z3998:song">
				<p class="first-child">
					<span>“Soo-oop of the e-e-even­ing,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Beau­ti­ful, beau­ti­ful Soup!”</span>
				</p>
			</blockquote>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
