<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-GB" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: http://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>Chapter 7: A Mad Tea-Party</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-7" epub:type="chapter">
			<h2 epub:type="title">
				<span epub:type="z3998:roman">VII</span>
				<span class="subtitle" epub:type="subtitle">A Mad Tea-Party</span>
			</h2>
			<p>There was a table set out un­der a tree in front of the house, and the March Hare and the Hat­ter were hav­ing tea at it: a Dormouse was sit­ting between them, fast asleep, and the other two were us­ing it as a cush­ion, rest­ing their el­bows on it, and talk­ing over its head. “Very un­com­fort­able for the Dormouse,” thought Alice; “only, as it’s asleep, I sup­pose it doesn’t mind.”</p>
			<p>The table was a large one, but the three were all crowded to­gether at one corner of it: “No room! No room!” they cried out when they saw Alice com­ing. “There’s <em>plenty</em> of room!” said Alice in­dig­nantly, and she sat down in a large arm­chair at one end of the table.</p>
			<p>“Have some wine,” the March Hare said in an en­cour­aging tone.</p>
			<p>Alice looked all round the table, but there was noth­ing on it but tea. “I don’t see any wine,” she re­marked.</p>
			<p>“There isn’t any,” said the March Hare.</p>
			<p>“Then it wasn’t very civil of you to of­fer it,” said Alice an­grily.</p>
			<p>“It wasn’t very civil of you to sit down without be­ing in­vited,” said the March Hare.</p>
			<p>“I didn’t know it was <em>your</em> table,” said Alice; “it’s laid for a great many more than three.”</p>
			<p>“Your hair wants cut­ting,” said the Hat­ter. He had been look­ing at Alice for some time with great curi­os­ity, and this was his first speech.</p>
			<p>“You should learn not to make per­sonal re­marks,” Alice said with some sever­ity; “it’s very rude.”</p>
			<p>The Hat­ter opened his eyes very wide on hear­ing this; but all he said was, “Why is a raven like a writ­ing-desk?”</p>
			<p>“Come, we shall have some fun now!” thought Alice. “I’m glad they’ve be­gun ask­ing riddles—I be­lieve I can guess that,” she ad­ded aloud.</p>
			<p>“Do you mean that you think you can find out the an­swer to it?” said the March Hare.</p>
			<p>“Ex­actly so,” said Alice.</p>
			<p>“Then you should say what you mean,” the March Hare went on.</p>
			<p>“I do,” Alice hast­ily replied; “at least—at least I mean what I say—that’s the same thing, you know.”</p>
			<p>“Not the same thing a bit!” said the Hat­ter. “You might just as well say that ‘I see what I eat’ is the same thing as ‘I eat what I see’!”</p>
			<p>“You might just as well say,” ad­ded the March Hare, “that ‘I like what I get’ is the same thing as ‘I get what I like’!”</p>
			<p>“You might just as well say,” ad­ded the Dormouse, who seemed to be talk­ing in his sleep, “that ‘I breathe when I sleep’ is the same thing as ‘I sleep when I breathe’!”</p>
			<p>“It <em>is</em> the same thing with you,” said the Hat­ter, and here the con­ver­sa­tion dropped, and the party sat si­lent for a minute, while Alice thought over all she could re­mem­ber about ravens and writ­ing-desks, which wasn’t much.</p>
			<p>The Hat­ter was the first to break the si­lence. “What day of the month is it?” he said, turn­ing to Alice: he had taken his watch out of his pocket, and was look­ing at it un­eas­ily, shak­ing it every now and then, and hold­ing it to his ear.</p>
			<p>Alice con­sidered a little, and then said “The fourth.”</p>
			<p>“Two days wrong!” sighed the Hat­ter. “I told you but­ter wouldn’t suit the works!” he ad­ded, look­ing an­grily at the March Hare.</p>
			<p>“It was the <em>best</em> but­ter,” the March Hare meekly replied.</p>
			<p>“Yes, but some crumbs must have got in as well,” the Hat­ter grumbled: “you shouldn’t have put it in with the bread-knife.”</p>
			<p>The March Hare took the watch and looked at it gloomily: then he dipped it into his cup of tea, and looked at it again: but he could think of noth­ing bet­ter to say than his first re­mark, “It was the <em>best</em> but­ter, you know.”</p>
			<p>Alice had been look­ing over his shoulder with some curi­os­ity. “What a funny watch!” she re­marked. “It tells the day of the month, and doesn’t tell what o’clock it is!”</p>
			<p>“Why should it?” muttered the Hat­ter. “Does <em>your</em> watch tell you what year it is?”</p>
			<p>“Of course not,” Alice replied very read­ily: “but that’s be­cause it stays the same year for such a long time to­gether.”</p>
			<p>“Which is just the case with <em>mine</em>,” said the Hat­ter.</p>
			<p>Alice felt dread­fully puzzled. The Hat­ter’s re­mark seemed to have no sort of mean­ing in it, and yet it was cer­tainly Eng­lish. “I don’t quite un­der­stand you,” she said, as po­litely as she could.</p>
			<p>“The Dormouse is asleep again,” said the Hat­ter, and he poured a little hot tea upon its nose.</p>
			<p>The Dormouse shook its head im­pa­tiently, and said, without open­ing its eyes, “Of course, of course; just what I was go­ing to re­mark my­self.”</p>
			<p>“Have you guessed the riddle yet?” the Hat­ter said, turn­ing to Alice again.</p>
			<p>“No, I give it up,” Alice replied: “what’s the an­swer?”</p>
			<p>“I haven’t the slight­est idea,” said the Hat­ter.</p>
			<p>“Nor I,” said the March Hare.</p>
			<p>Alice sighed wear­ily. “I think you might do some­thing bet­ter with the time,” she said, “than waste it in ask­ing riddles that have no an­swers.”</p>
			<p>“If you knew Time as well as I do,” said the Hat­ter, “you wouldn’t talk about wast­ing <em>it</em>. It’s him.”</p>
			<p>“I don’t know what you mean,” said Alice.</p>
			<p>“Of course you don’t!” the Hat­ter said, toss­ing his head con­temp­tu­ously. “I dare say you never even spoke to Time!”</p>
			<p>“Per­haps not,” Alice cau­tiously replied: “but I know I have to beat time when I learn mu­sic.”</p>
			<p>“Ah! that ac­counts for it,” said the Hat­ter. “He won’t stand beat­ing. Now, if you only kept on good terms with him, he’d do al­most any­thing you liked with the clock. For in­stance, sup­pose it were nine o’clock in the morn­ing, just time to be­gin les­sons: you’d only have to whis­per a hint to Time, and round goes the clock in a twink­ling! Half-past one, time for din­ner!”</p>
			<p>(“I only wish it was,” the March Hare said to it­self in a whis­per.)</p>
			<p>“That would be grand, cer­tainly,” said Alice thought­fully: “but then—I shouldn’t be hungry for it, you know.”</p>
			<p>“Not at first, per­haps,” said the Hat­ter: “but you could keep it to half-past one as long as you liked.”</p>
			<p>“Is that the way <em>you</em> man­age?” Alice asked.</p>
			<p>The Hat­ter shook his head mourn­fully. “Not I!” he replied. “We quar­relled last March—just be­fore <em>he</em> went mad, you know—” (point­ing with his tea spoon at the March Hare,) “—it was at the great con­cert given by the Queen of Hearts, and I had to sing</p>
			<blockquote class="z3998-song" epub:type="z3998:song">
				<p class="first-child">
					<span>‘Twinkle, twinkle, little bat!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>How I won­der what you’re at!’</span>
				</p>
			</blockquote>
			<p>You know the song, per­haps?”</p>
			<p>“I’ve heard some­thing like it,” said Alice.</p>
			<p>“It goes on, you know,” the Hat­ter con­tin­ued, “in this way:—</p>
			<blockquote class="z3998-song" epub:type="z3998:song">
				<p class="first-child">
					<span>‘Up above the world you fly,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Like a tea-tray in the sky.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Twinkle, twinkle—’ ”</span>
				</p>
			</blockquote>
			<p>Here the Dormouse shook it­self, and began singing in its sleep <q>“<i>Twinkle, twinkle, twinkle, twinkle—</i>”</q> and went on so long that they had to pinch it to make it stop.</p>
			<p>“Well, I’d hardly fin­ished the first verse,” said the Hat­ter, “when the Queen jumped up and bawled out, ‘He’s mur­der­ing the time! Off with his head!’ ”</p>
			<p>“How dread­fully sav­age!” ex­claimed Alice.</p>
			<p>“And ever since that,” the Hat­ter went on in a mourn­ful tone, “he won’t do a thing I ask! It’s al­ways six o’clock now.”</p>
			<p>A bright idea came into Alice’s head. “Is that the reason so many tea-things are put out here?” she asked.</p>
			<p>“Yes, that’s it,” said the Hat­ter with a sigh: “it’s al­ways teatime, and we’ve no time to wash the things between whiles.”</p>
			<p>“Then you keep mov­ing round, I sup­pose?” said Alice.</p>
			<p>“Ex­actly so,” said the Hat­ter: “as the things get used up.”</p>
			<p>“But what hap­pens when you come to the be­gin­ning again?” Alice ven­tured to ask.</p>
			<p>“Sup­pose we change the sub­ject,” the March Hare in­ter­rup­ted, yawn­ing. “I’m get­ting tired of this. I vote the young lady tells us a story.”</p>
			<p>“I’m afraid I don’t know one,” said Alice, rather alarmed at the pro­posal.</p>
			<p>“Then the Dormouse shall!” they both cried. “Wake up, Dormouse!” And they pinched it on both sides at once.</p>
			<p>The Dormouse slowly opened his eyes. “I wasn’t asleep,” he said in a hoarse, feeble voice: “I heard every word you fel­lows were say­ing.”</p>
			<p>“Tell us a story!” said the March Hare.</p>
			<p>“Yes, please do!” pleaded Alice.</p>
			<p>“And be quick about it,” ad­ded the Hat­ter, “or you’ll be asleep again be­fore it’s done.”</p>
			<p>“Once upon a time there were three little sis­ters,” the Dormouse began in a great hurry; “and their names were Elsie, Lacie, and Til­lie; and they lived at the bot­tom of a well—”</p>
			<p>“What did they live on?” said Alice, who al­ways took a great in­terest in ques­tions of eat­ing and drink­ing.</p>
			<p>“They lived on treacle,” said the Dormouse, after think­ing a minute or two.</p>
			<p>“They couldn’t have done that, you know,” Alice gently re­marked; “they’d have been ill.”</p>
			<p>“So they were,” said the Dormouse; “<em>very</em> ill.”</p>
			<p>Alice tried to fancy to her­self what such an ex­traordin­ary ways of liv­ing would be like, but it puzzled her too much, so she went on: “But why did they live at the bot­tom of a well?”</p>
			<p>“Take some more tea,” the March Hare said to Alice, very earn­estly.</p>
			<p>“I’ve had noth­ing yet,” Alice replied in an of­fen­ded tone, “so I can’t take more.”</p>
			<p>“You mean you can’t take <em>less</em>,” said the Hat­ter: “it’s very easy to take more than noth­ing.”</p>
			<p>“Nobody asked <em>your</em> opin­ion,” said Alice.</p>
			<p>“Who’s mak­ing per­sonal re­marks now?” the Hat­ter asked tri­umphantly.</p>
			<p>Alice did not quite know what to say to this: so she helped her­self to some tea and bread-and-but­ter, and then turned to the Dormouse, and re­peated her ques­tion. “Why did they live at the bot­tom of a well?”</p>
			<p>The Dormouse again took a minute or two to think about it, and then said, “It was a treacle-well.”</p>
			<p>“There’s no such thing!” Alice was be­gin­ning very an­grily, but the Hat­ter and the March Hare went “Sh! sh!” and the Dormouse sulkily re­marked, “If you can’t be civil, you’d bet­ter fin­ish the story for your­self.”</p>
			<p>“No, please go on!” Alice said very humbly; “I won’t in­ter­rupt again. I dare say there may be <em>one</em>.”</p>
			<p>“One, in­deed!” said the Dormouse in­dig­nantly. However, he con­sen­ted to go on. “And so these three little sis­ters—they were learn­ing to draw, you know—”</p>
			<p>“What did they draw?” said Alice, quite for­get­ting her prom­ise.</p>
			<p>“Treacle,” said the Dormouse, without con­sid­er­ing at all this time.</p>
			<p>“I want a clean cup,” in­ter­rup­ted the Hat­ter: “let’s all move one place on.”</p>
			<p>He moved on as he spoke, and the Dormouse fol­lowed him: the March Hare moved into the Dormouse’s place, and Alice rather un­will­ingly took the place of the March Hare. The Hat­ter was the only one who got any ad­vant­age from the change: and Alice was a good deal worse off than be­fore, as the March Hare had just up­set the milk-jug into his plate.</p>
			<p>Alice did not wish to of­fend the Dormouse again, so she began very cau­tiously: “But I don’t un­der­stand. Where did they draw the treacle from?”</p>
			<p>“You can draw wa­ter out of a wa­ter-well,” said the Hat­ter; “so I should think you could draw treacle out of a treacle-well—eh, stu­pid?”</p>
			<p>“But they were <em>in</em> the well,” Alice said to the Dormouse, not choos­ing to no­tice this last re­mark.</p>
			<p>“Of course they were,” said the Dormouse; “—well in.”</p>
			<p>This an­swer so con­fused poor Alice, that she let the Dormouse go on for some time without in­ter­rupt­ing it.</p>
			<p>“They were learn­ing to draw,” the Dormouse went on, yawn­ing and rub­bing its eyes, for it was get­ting very sleepy; “and they drew all man­ner of things—everything that be­gins with an M—”</p>
			<p>“Why with an M?” said Alice.</p>
			<p>“Why not?” said the March Hare.</p>
			<p>Alice was si­lent.</p>
			<p>The Dormouse had closed its eyes by this time, and was go­ing off into a doze; but, on be­ing pinched by the Hat­ter, it woke up again with a little shriek, and went on: “—that be­gins with an M, such as mousetraps, and the moon, and memory, and much­ness—you know you say things are ‘much of a much­ness’—did you ever see such a thing as a draw­ing of a much­ness?”</p>
			<p>“Really, now you ask me,” said Alice, very much con­fused, “I don’t think—”</p>
			<p>“Then you shouldn’t talk,” said the Hat­ter.</p>
			<p>This piece of rude­ness was more than Alice could bear: she got up in great dis­gust, and walked off; the Dormouse fell asleep in­stantly, and neither of the oth­ers took the least no­tice of her go­ing, though she looked back once or twice, half hop­ing that they would call after her: the last time she saw them, they were try­ing to put the Dormouse into the teapot.</p>
			<p>“At any rate I’ll never go <em>there</em> again!” said Alice as she picked her way through the wood. “It’s the stu­pid­est tea-party I ever was at in all my life!”</p>
			<p>Just as she said this, she no­ticed that one of the trees had a door lead­ing right into it. “That’s very curi­ous!” she thought. “But everything’s curi­ous today. I think I may as well go in at once.” And in she went.</p>
			<p>Once more she found her­self in the long hall, and close to the little glass table. “Now, I’ll man­age bet­ter this time,” she said to her­self, and began by tak­ing the little golden key, and un­lock­ing the door that led into the garden. Then she went to work nib­bling at the mush­room (she had kept a piece of it in her pocket) till she was about a foot high: then she walked down the little pas­sage: and <em>then</em>—she found her­self at last in the beau­ti­ful garden, among the bright flower­beds and the cool foun­tains.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
