<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-GB" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: http://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>Chapter 4: The Rabbit Sends In a Little Bill</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-4" epub:type="chapter">
			<h2 epub:type="title">
				<span epub:type="z3998:roman">IV</span>
				<span class="subtitle" epub:type="subtitle">The Rab­bit Sends in a Little Bill</span>
			</h2>
			<p>It was the White Rab­bit, trot­ting slowly back again, and look­ing anxiously about as it went, as if it had lost some­thing; and she heard it mut­ter­ing to it­self “The Duchess! The Duchess! Oh my dear paws! Oh my fur and whiskers! She’ll get me ex­ecuted, as sure as fer­rets are fer­rets! Where <em>can</em> I have dropped them, I won­der?” Alice guessed in a mo­ment that it was look­ing for the fan and the pair of white kid gloves, and she very good-naturedly began hunt­ing about for them, but they were nowhere to be seen—everything seemed to have changed since her swim in the pool, and the great hall, with the glass table and the little door, had van­ished com­pletely.</p>
			<p>Very soon the Rab­bit no­ticed Alice, as she went hunt­ing about, and called out to her in an angry tone, “Why, Mary Ann, what <em>are</em> you do­ing out here? Run home this mo­ment, and fetch me a pair of gloves and a fan! Quick, now!” And Alice was so much frightened that she ran off at once in the dir­ec­tion it poin­ted to, without try­ing to ex­plain the mis­take it had made.</p>
			<p>“He took me for his house­maid,” she said to her­self as she ran. “How sur­prised he’ll be when he finds out who I am! But I’d bet­ter take him his fan and gloves—that is, if I can find them.” As she said this, she came upon a neat little house, on the door of which was a bright brass plate with the name “<b>W. Rab­bit</b>” en­graved upon it. She went in without knock­ing, and hur­ried up­stairs, in great fear lest she should meet the real Mary Ann, and be turned out of the house be­fore she had found the fan and gloves.</p>
			<p>“How queer it seems,” Alice said to her­self, “to be go­ing mes­sages for a rab­bit! I sup­pose Di­nah’ll be send­ing me on mes­sages next!” And she began fancy­ing the sort of thing that would hap­pen: “ ‘Miss Alice! Come here dir­ectly, and get ready for your walk!’ ‘Com­ing in a minute, nurse! But I’ve got to see that the mouse doesn’t get out.’ Only I don’t think,” Alice went on, “that they’d let Di­nah stop in the house if it began or­der­ing people about like that!”</p>
			<p>By this time she had found her way into a tidy little room with a table in the win­dow, and on it (as she had hoped) a fan and two or three pairs of tiny white kid gloves: she took up the fan and a pair of the gloves, and was just go­ing to leave the room, when her eye fell upon a little bottle that stood near the look­ing-glass. There was no la­bel this time with the words “<b>Drink Me</b>,” but nev­er­the­less she un­corked it and put it to her lips. “I know <em>some­thing</em> in­ter­est­ing is sure to hap­pen,” she said to her­self, “whenever I eat or drink any­thing; so I’ll just see what this bottle does. I do hope it’ll make me grow large again, for really I’m quite tired of be­ing such a tiny little thing!”</p>
			<p>It did so in­deed, and much sooner than she had ex­pec­ted: be­fore she had drunk half the bottle, she found her head press­ing against the ceil­ing, and had to stoop to save her neck from be­ing broken. She hast­ily put down the bottle, say­ing to her­self “That’s quite enough—I hope I shan’t grow any more—As it is, I can’t get out at the door—I do wish I hadn’t drunk quite so much!”</p>
			<p>Alas! it was too late to wish that! She went on grow­ing, and grow­ing, and very soon had to kneel down on the floor: in an­other minute there was not even room for this, and she tried the ef­fect of ly­ing down with one el­bow against the door, and the other arm curled round her head. Still she went on grow­ing, and, as a last re­source, she put one arm out of the win­dow, and one foot up the chim­ney, and said to her­self, “Now I can do no more, whatever hap­pens. What <em>will</em> be­come of me?”</p>
			<p>Luck­ily for Alice, the little ma­gic bottle had now had its full ef­fect, and she grew no lar­ger: still it was very un­com­fort­able, and, as there seemed to be no sort of chance of her ever get­ting out of the room again, no won­der she felt un­happy.</p>
			<p>“It was much pleas­anter at home,” thought poor Alice, “when one wasn’t al­ways grow­ing lar­ger and smal­ler, and be­ing ordered about by mice and rab­bits. I al­most wish I hadn’t gone down that rab­bit-hole—and yet—and yet—it’s rather curi­ous, you know, this sort of life! I do won­der what <em>can</em> have happened to me! When I used to read fairytales, I fan­cied that kind of thing never happened, and now here I am in the middle of one! There ought to be a book writ­ten about me, that there ought! And when I grow up, I’ll write one—but I’m grown up now,” she ad­ded in a sor­row­ful tone; “at least there’s no room to grow up any more here.”</p>
			<p>“But then,” thought Alice, “shall I <em>never</em> get any older than I am now? That’ll be a com­fort, one way—never to be an old wo­man—but then—al­ways to have les­sons to learn! Oh, I shouldn’t like that!”</p>
			<p>“Oh, you fool­ish Alice!” she answered her­self. “How can you learn les­sons in here? Why, there’s hardly room for you, and no room at all for any les­son-books!”</p>
			<p>And so she went on, tak­ing first one side and then the other, and mak­ing quite a con­ver­sa­tion of it al­to­gether; but after a few minutes she heard a voice out­side, and stopped to listen.</p>
			<p>“Mary Ann! Mary Ann!” said the voice. “Fetch me my gloves this mo­ment!” Then came a little pat­ter­ing of feet on the stairs. Alice knew it was the Rab­bit com­ing to look for her, and she trembled till she shook the house, quite for­get­ting that she was now about a thou­sand times as large as the Rab­bit, and had no reason to be afraid of it.</p>
			<p>Presently the Rab­bit came up to the door, and tried to open it; but, as the door opened in­wards, and Alice’s el­bow was pressed hard against it, that at­tempt proved a fail­ure. Alice heard it say to it­self “Then I’ll go round and get in at the win­dow.”</p>
			<p>“<em>That</em> you won’t!” thought Alice, and, after wait­ing till she fan­cied she heard the Rab­bit just un­der the win­dow, she sud­denly spread out her hand, and made a snatch in the air. She did not get hold of any­thing, but she heard a little shriek and a fall, and a crash of broken glass, from which she con­cluded that it was just pos­sible it had fallen into a cu­cum­ber-frame, or some­thing of the sort.</p>
			<p>Next came an angry voice—the Rab­bit’s—“Pat! Pat! Where are you?” And then a voice she had never heard be­fore, “Sure then I’m here! Dig­ging for apples, yer hon­our!”</p>
			<p>“Dig­ging for apples, in­deed!” said the Rab­bit an­grily. “Here! Come and help me out of <em>this</em>!” (Sounds of more broken glass.)</p>
			<p>“Now tell me, Pat, what’s that in the win­dow?”</p>
			<p>“Sure, it’s an arm, yer hon­our!” (He pro­nounced it “ar­rum.”)</p>
			<p>“An arm, you goose! Who ever saw one that size? Why, it fills the whole win­dow!”</p>
			<p>“Sure, it does, yer hon­our: but it’s an arm for all that.”</p>
			<p>“Well, it’s got no busi­ness there, at any rate: go and take it away!”</p>
			<p>There was a long si­lence after this, and Alice could only hear whis­pers now and then; such as, “Sure, I don’t like it, yer hon­our, at all, at all!” “Do as I tell you, you cow­ard!” and at last she spread out her hand again, and made an­other snatch in the air. This time there were <em>two</em> little shrieks, and more sounds of broken glass. “What a num­ber of cu­cum­ber-frames there must be!” thought Alice. “I won­der what they’ll do next! As for pulling me out of the win­dow, I only wish they could! I’m sure I don’t want to stay in here any longer!”</p>
			<p>She waited for some time without hear­ing any­thing more: at last came a rum­bling of little cartwheels, and the sound of a good many voices all talk­ing to­gether: she made out the words: “Where’s the other lad­der?—Why, I hadn’t to bring but one; Bill’s got the other—Bill! fetch it here, lad!—Here, put ’em up at this corner—No, tie ’em to­gether first—they don’t reach half high enough yet—Oh! they’ll do well enough; don’t be par­tic­u­lar—Here, Bill! catch hold of this rope—Will the roof bear?—Mind that loose slate—Oh, it’s com­ing down! Heads be­low!” (a loud crash)—“Now, who did that?—It was Bill, I fancy—Who’s to go down the chim­ney?—Nay, I shan’t! <em>You</em> do it!—That I won’t, then!—Bill’s to go down—Here, Bill! the mas­ter says you’re to go down the chim­ney!”</p>
			<p>“Oh! So Bill’s got to come down the chim­ney, has he?” said Alice to her­self. “Shy, they seem to put everything upon Bill! I wouldn’t be in Bill’s place for a good deal: this fire­place is nar­row, to be sure; but I <em>think</em> I can kick a little!”</p>
			<p>She drew her foot as far down the chim­ney as she could, and waited till she heard a little an­imal (she couldn’t guess of what sort it was) scratch­ing and scram­bling about in the chim­ney close above her: then, say­ing to her­self “This is Bill,” she gave one sharp kick, and waited to see what would hap­pen next.</p>
			<p>The first thing she heard was a gen­eral chorus of “There goes Bill!” then the Rab­bit’s voice along—“Catch him, you by the hedge!” then si­lence, and then an­other con­fu­sion of voices—“Hold up his head—Brandy now—Don’t choke him—How was it, old fel­low? What happened to you? Tell us all about it!”</p>
			<p>Last came a little feeble, squeak­ing voice, (“That’s Bill,” thought Alice,) “Well, I hardly know—No more, thank ye; I’m bet­ter now—but I’m a deal too flustered to tell you—all I know is, some­thing comes at me like a Jack-in-the-box, and up I goes like a skyrocket!”</p>
			<p>“So you did, old fel­low!” said the oth­ers.</p>
			<p>“We must burn the house down!” said the Rab­bit’s voice; and Alice called out as loud as she could, “If you do. I’ll set Di­nah at you!”</p>
			<p>There was a dead si­lence in­stantly, and Alice thought to her­self, “I won­der what they <em>will</em> do next! If they had any sense, they’d take the roof off.” After a minute or two, they began mov­ing about again, and Alice heard the Rab­bit say, “A bar­row­ful will do, to be­gin with.”</p>
			<p>“A bar­row­ful of <em>what?</em>” thought Alice; but she had not long to doubt, for the next mo­ment a shower of little pebbles came rat­tling in at the win­dow, and some of them hit her in the face. “I’ll put a stop to this,” she said to her­self, and shouted out, “You’d bet­ter not do that again!” which pro­duced an­other dead si­lence.</p>
			<p>Alice no­ticed with some sur­prise that the pebbles were all turn­ing into little cakes as they lay on the floor, and a bright idea came into her head. “If I eat one of these cakes,” she thought, “it’s sure to make <em>some</em> change in my size; and as it can’t pos­sibly make me lar­ger, it must make me smal­ler, I sup­pose.”</p>
			<p>So she swal­lowed one of the cakes, and was de­lighted to find that she began shrink­ing dir­ectly. As soon as she was small enough to get through the door, she ran out of the house, and found quite a crowd of little an­im­als and birds wait­ing out­side. The poor little Liz­ard, Bill, was in the middle, be­ing held up by two guinea-pigs, who were giv­ing it some­thing out of a bottle. They all made a rush at Alice the mo­ment she ap­peared; but she ran off as hard as she could, and soon found her­self safe in a thick wood.</p>
			<p>“The first thing I’ve got to do,” said Alice to her­self, as she wandered about in the wood, “is to grow to my right size again; and the second thing is to find my way into that lovely garden. I think that will be the best plan.”</p>
			<p>It soun­ded an ex­cel­lent plan, no doubt, and very neatly and simply ar­ranged; the only dif­fi­culty was, that she had not the smal­lest idea how to set about it; and while she was peer­ing about anxiously among the trees, a little sharp bark just over her head made her look up in a great hurry.</p>
			<p>An enorm­ous puppy was look­ing down at her with large round eyes, and feebly stretch­ing out one paw, try­ing to touch her. “Poor little thing!” said Alice, in a coax­ing tone, and she tried hard to whistle to it; but she was ter­ribly frightened all the time at the thought that it might be hungry, in which case it would be very likely to eat her up in spite of all her coax­ing.</p>
			<p>Hardly know­ing what she did, she picked up a little bit of stick, and held it out to the puppy; whereupon the puppy jumped into the air off all its feet at once, with a yelp of de­light, and rushed at the stick, and made be­lieve to worry it; then Alice dodged be­hind a great thistle, to keep her­self from be­ing run over; and the mo­ment she ap­peared on the other side, the puppy made an­other rush at the stick, and tumbled head over heels in its hurry to get hold of it; then Alice, think­ing it was very like hav­ing a game of play with a carthorse, and ex­pect­ing every mo­ment to be trampled un­der its feet, ran round the thistle again; then the puppy began a series of short charges at the stick, run­ning a very little way for­wards each time and a long way back, and bark­ing hoarsely all the while, till at last it sat down a good way off, pant­ing, with its tongue hanging out of its mouth, and its great eyes half shut.</p>
			<p>This seemed to Alice a good op­por­tun­ity for mak­ing her es­cape; so she set off at once, and ran till she was quite tired and out of breath, and till the puppy’s bark soun­ded quite faint in the dis­tance.</p>
			<p>“And yet what a dear little puppy it was!” said Alice, as she leant against a but­ter­cup to rest her­self, and fanned her­self with one of the leaves: “I should have liked teach­ing it tricks very much, if—if I’d only been the right size to do it! Oh dear! I’d nearly for­got­ten that I’ve got to grow up again! Let me see—how IS it to be man­aged? I sup­pose I ought to eat or drink some­thing or other; but the great ques­tion is, what?”</p>
			<p>The great ques­tion cer­tainly was, what? Alice looked all round her at the flowers and the blades of grass, but she did not see any­thing that looked like the right thing to eat or drink un­der the cir­cum­stances. There was a large mush­room grow­ing near her, about the same height as her­self; and when she had looked un­der it, and on both sides of it, and be­hind it, it oc­curred to her that she might as well look and see what was on the top of it.</p>
			<p>She stretched her­self up on tip­toe, and peeped over the edge of the mush­room, and her eyes im­me­di­ately met those of a large cater­pil­lar, that was sit­ting on the top with its arms fol­ded, quietly smoking a long hookah, and tak­ing not the smal­lest no­tice of her or of any­thing else.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
