<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-GB" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: http://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>Chapter 6: Pig and Pepper</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-6" epub:type="chapter">
			<h2 epub:type="title">
				<span epub:type="z3998:roman">VI</span>
				<span class="subtitle" epub:type="subtitle">Pig and Pep­per</span>
			</h2>
			<p>For a minute or two she stood look­ing at the house, and won­der­ing what to do next, when sud­denly a foot­man in liv­ery came run­ning out of the wood—(she con­sidered him to be a foot­man be­cause he was in liv­ery: oth­er­wise, judging by his face only, she would have called him a fish)—and rapped loudly at the door with his knuckles. It was opened by an­other foot­man in liv­ery, with a round face, and large eyes like a frog; and both foot­men, Alice no­ticed, had powdered hair that curled all over their heads. She felt very curi­ous to know what it was all about, and crept a little way out of the wood to listen.</p>
			<p>The Fish-Foot­man began by pro­du­cing from un­der his arm a great let­ter, nearly as large as him­self, and this he handed over to the other, say­ing, in a sol­emn tone, “For the Duchess. An in­vit­a­tion from the Queen to play cro­quet.” The Frog-Foot­man re­peated, in the same sol­emn tone, only chan­ging the or­der of the words a little, “From the Queen. An in­vit­a­tion for the Duchess to play cro­quet.”</p>
			<p>Then they both bowed low, and their curls got en­tangled to­gether.</p>
			<p>Alice laughed so much at this, that she had to run back into the wood for fear of their hear­ing her; and when she next peeped out the Fish-Foot­man was gone, and the other was sit­ting on the ground near the door, star­ing stu­pidly up into the sky.</p>
			<p>Alice went tim­idly up to the door, and knocked.</p>
			<p>“There’s no sort of use in knock­ing,” said the Foot­man, “and that for two reas­ons. First, be­cause I’m on the same side of the door as you are; secondly, be­cause they’re mak­ing such a noise in­side, no one could pos­sibly hear you.” And cer­tainly there was a most ex­traordin­ary noise go­ing on within—a con­stant howl­ing and sneez­ing, and every now and then a great crash, as if a dish or kettle had been broken to pieces.</p>
			<p>“Please, then,” said Alice, “how am I to get in?”</p>
			<p>“There might be some sense in your knock­ing,” the Foot­man went on without at­tend­ing to her, “if we had the door between us. For in­stance, if you were <em>in­side</em>, you might knock, and I could let you out, you know.” He was look­ing up into the sky all the time he was speak­ing, and this Alice thought de­cidedly un­civil. “But per­haps he can’t help it,” she said to her­self; “his eyes are so very nearly at the top of his head. But at any rate he might an­swer ques­tions.—How am I to get in?” she re­peated, aloud.</p>
			<p>“I shall sit here,” the Foot­man re­marked, “till to­mor­row—”</p>
			<p>At this mo­ment the door of the house opened, and a large plate came skim­ming out, straight at the Foot­man’s head: it just grazed his nose, and broke to pieces against one of the trees be­hind him.</p>
			<p>“—or next day, maybe,” the Foot­man con­tin­ued in the same tone, ex­actly as if noth­ing had happened.</p>
			<p>“How am I to get in?” asked Alice again, in a louder tone.</p>
			<p>”<em>Are</em> you to get in at all?” said the Foot­man. “That’s the first ques­tion, you know.”</p>
			<p>It was, no doubt: only Alice did not like to be told so. “It’s really dread­ful,” she muttered to her­self, “the way all the creatures ar­gue. It’s enough to drive one crazy!”</p>
			<p>The Foot­man seemed to think this a good op­por­tun­ity for re­peat­ing his re­mark, with vari­ations. “I shall sit here,” he said, “on and off, for days and days.”</p>
			<p>“But what am I to do?” said Alice.</p>
			<p>“Anything you like,” said the Foot­man, and began whist­ling.</p>
			<p>“Oh, there’s no use in talk­ing to him,” said Alice des­per­ately: “he’s per­fectly idi­otic!” And she opened the door and went in.</p>
			<p>The door led right into a large kit­chen, which was full of smoke from one end to the other: the Duchess was sit­ting on a three-legged stool in the middle, nurs­ing a baby; the cook was lean­ing over the fire, stir­ring a large cauldron which seemed to be full of soup.</p>
			<p>“There’s cer­tainly too much pep­per in that soup!” Alice said to her­self, as well as she could for sneez­ing.</p>
			<p>There was cer­tainly too much of it in the air. Even the Duchess sneezed oc­ca­sion­ally; and as for the baby, it was sneez­ing and howl­ing al­tern­ately without a mo­ment’s pause. The only things in the kit­chen that did not sneeze, were the cook, and a large cat which was sit­ting on the hearth and grin­ning from ear to ear.</p>
			<p>“Please would you tell me,” said Alice, a little tim­idly, for she was not quite sure whether it was good man­ners for her to speak first, “why your cat grins like that?”</p>
			<p>“It’s a Cheshire cat,” said the Duchess, “and that’s why. Pig!”</p>
			<p>She said the last word with such sud­den vi­ol­ence that Alice quite jumped; but she saw in an­other mo­ment that it was ad­dressed to the baby, and not to her, so she took cour­age, and went on again:—</p>
			<p>“I didn’t know that Cheshire cats al­ways grinned; in fact, I didn’t know that cats <em>could</em> grin.”</p>
			<p>“They all can,” said the Duchess; “and most of ’em do.”</p>
			<p>“I don’t know of any that do,” Alice said very po­litely, feel­ing quite pleased to have got into a con­ver­sa­tion.</p>
			<p>“You don’t know much,” said the Duchess; “and that’s a fact.”</p>
			<p>Alice did not at all like the tone of this re­mark, and thought it would be as well to in­tro­duce some other sub­ject of con­ver­sa­tion. While she was try­ing to fix on one, the cook took the cauldron of soup off the fire, and at once set to work throw­ing everything within her reach at the Duchess and the baby—the fire-irons came first; then fol­lowed a shower of sauce­pans, plates, and dishes. The Duchess took no no­tice of them even when they hit her; and the baby was howl­ing so much already, that it was quite im­possible to say whether the blows hurt it or not.</p>
			<p>“Oh, <em>please</em> mind what you’re do­ing!” cried Alice, jump­ing up and down in an agony of ter­ror. “Oh, there goes his pre­cious nose”; as an un­usu­ally large sauce­pan flew close by it, and very nearly car­ried it off.</p>
			<p>“If every­body minded their own busi­ness,” the Duchess said in a hoarse growl, “the world would go round a deal faster than it does.”</p>
			<p>“Which would <em>not</em> be an ad­vant­age,” said Alice, who felt very glad to get an op­por­tun­ity of show­ing off a little of her know­ledge. “Just think of what work it would make with the day and night! You see the earth takes twenty-four hours to turn round on its axis—”</p>
			<p>“Talk­ing of axes,” said the Duchess, “chop off her head!”</p>
			<p>Alice glanced rather anxiously at the cook, to see if she meant to take the hint; but the cook was busily stir­ring the soup, and seemed not to be listen­ing, so she went on again: “Twenty-four hours, I <em>think</em>; or is it twelve? I—”</p>
			<p>“Oh, don’t bother ME,” said the Duchess; “I never could abide fig­ures!” And with that she began nurs­ing her child again, singing a sort of lul­laby to it as she did so, and giv­ing it a vi­ol­ent shake at the end of every line:</p>
			<blockquote class="z3998-poem" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<p class="first-child">
					<span>“Speak roughly to your little boy,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And beat him when he sneezes:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He only does it to an­noy,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Be­cause he knows it teases.”</span>
				</p>
			</blockquote>
			<p><i>Chorus</i>, (In which the cook and the baby joined):—</p>
			<blockquote class="z3998-verse" epub:type="z3998:verse">
				<p class="first-child">
					<span>“Wow! wow! wow!”</span>
				</p>
			</blockquote>
			<p>While the Duchess sang the second verse of the song, she kept toss­ing the baby vi­ol­ently up and down, and the poor little thing howled so, that Alice could hardly hear the words:—</p>
			<blockquote class="z3998-poem" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<p class="first-child">
					<span>“I speak severely to my boy,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">I beat him when he sneezes;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For he can thor­oughly en­joy</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The pep­per when he pleases!”</span>
				</p>
			</blockquote>
			<p>
				<i>Chorus.</i>
			</p>
			<blockquote class="z3998-verse" epub:type="z3998:verse">
				<p class="first-child">
					<span>“Wow! wow! wow!”</span>
				</p>
			</blockquote>
			<p>“Here! you may nurse it a bit, if you like!” the Duchess said to Alice, fling­ing the baby at her as she spoke. “I must go and get ready to play cro­quet with the Queen,” and she hur­ried out of the room. The cook threw a fry­ing-pan after her as she went out, but it just missed her.</p>
			<p>Alice caught the baby with some dif­fi­culty, as it was a queer-shaped little creature, and held out its arms and legs in all dir­ec­tions, “just like a star­fish,” thought Alice. The poor little thing was snort­ing like a steam-en­gine when she caught it, and kept doub­ling it­self up and straight­en­ing it­self out again, so that al­to­gether, for the first minute or two, it was as much as she could do to hold it.</p>
			<p>As soon as she had made out the proper way of nurs­ing it, (which was to twist it up into a sort of knot, and then keep tight hold of its right ear and left foot, so as to pre­vent its un­do­ing it­self,) she car­ried it out into the open air. “<em>If</em> I don’t take this child away with me,” thought Alice, “they’re sure to kill it in a day or two: wouldn’t it be murder to leave it be­hind?” She said the last words out loud, and the little thing grunted in reply (it had left off sneez­ing by this time). “Don’t grunt,” said Alice; “that’s not at all a proper way of ex­press­ing your­self.”</p>
			<p>The baby grunted again, and Alice looked very anxiously into its face to see what was the mat­ter with it. There could be no doubt that it had a <em>very</em> turn-up nose, much more like a snout than a real nose; also its eyes were get­ting ex­tremely small for a baby: al­to­gether Alice did not like the look of the thing at all. “But per­haps it was only sob­bing,” she thought, and looked into its eyes again, to see if there were any tears.</p>
			<p>No, there were no tears. “If you’re go­ing to turn into a pig, my dear,” said Alice, ser­i­ously, “I’ll have noth­ing more to do with you. Mind now!” The poor little thing sobbed again (or grunted, it was im­possible to say which), and they went on for some while in si­lence.</p>
			<p>Alice was just be­gin­ning to think to her­self, “Now, what am I to do with this creature when I get it home?” when it grunted again, so vi­ol­ently, that she looked down into its face in some alarm. This time there could be <em>no</em> mis­take about it: it was neither more nor less than a pig, and she felt that it would be quite ab­surd for her to carry it fur­ther.</p>
			<p>So she set the little creature down, and felt quite re­lieved to see it trot away quietly into the wood. “If it had grown up,” she said to her­self, “it would have made a dread­fully ugly child: but it makes rather a hand­some pig, I think.” And she began think­ing over other chil­dren she knew, who might do very well as pigs, and was just say­ing to her­self, “if one only knew the right way to change them—” when she was a little startled by see­ing the Cheshire Cat sit­ting on a bough of a tree a few yards off.</p>
			<p>The Cat only grinned when it saw Alice. It looked good-natured, she thought: still it had <em>very</em> long claws and a great many teeth, so she felt that it ought to be treated with re­spect.</p>
			<p>“Cheshire Puss,” she began, rather tim­idly, as she did not at all know whether it would like the name: how­ever, it only grinned a little wider. “Come, it’s pleased so far,” thought Alice, and she went on. “Would you tell me, please, which way I ought to go from here?”</p>
			<p>“That de­pends a good deal on where you want to get to,” said the Cat.</p>
			<p>“I don’t much care where—” said Alice.</p>
			<p>“Then it doesn’t mat­ter which way you go,” said the Cat.</p>
			<p>“—so long as I get <em>some­where</em>,” Alice ad­ded as an ex­plan­a­tion.</p>
			<p>“Oh, you’re sure to do that,” said the Cat, “if you only walk long enough.”</p>
			<p>Alice felt that this could not be denied, so she tried an­other ques­tion. “What sort of people live about here?”</p>
			<p>“In <em>that</em> dir­ec­tion,” the Cat said, wav­ing its right paw round, “lives a Hat­ter: and in that dir­ec­tion,” wav­ing the other paw, “lives a March Hare. Visit either you like: they’re both mad.”</p>
			<p>“But I don’t want to go among mad people,” Alice re­marked.</p>
			<p>“Oh, you can’t help that,” said the Cat: “we’re all mad here. I’m mad. You’re mad.”</p>
			<p>“How do you know I’m mad?” said Alice.</p>
			<p>“You must be,” said the Cat, “or you wouldn’t have come here.”</p>
			<p>Alice didn’t think that proved it at all; how­ever, she went on: “And how do you know that you’re mad?”</p>
			<p>“To be­gin with,” said the Cat, “a dog’s not mad. You grant that?”</p>
			<p>“I sup­pose so,” said Alice.</p>
			<p>“Well, then,” the Cat went on, “you see, a dog growls when it’s angry, and wags its tail when it’s pleased. Now I growl when I’m pleased, and wag my tail when I’m angry. There­fore I’m mad.”</p>
			<p>“I call it purring, not growl­ing,” said Alice.</p>
			<p>“Call it what you like,” said the Cat. “Do you play cro­quet with the Queen today?”</p>
			<p>“I should like it very much,” said Alice, “but I haven’t been in­vited yet.”</p>
			<p>“You’ll see me there,” said the Cat, and van­ished.</p>
			<p>Alice was not much sur­prised at this, she was get­ting so used to queer things hap­pen­ing. While she was look­ing at the place where it had been, it sud­denly ap­peared again.</p>
			<p>“By-the-bye, what be­came of the baby?” said the Cat. “I’d nearly for­got­ten to ask.”</p>
			<p>“It turned into a pig,” Alice quietly said, just as if it had come back in a nat­ural way.</p>
			<p>“I thought it would,” said the Cat, and van­ished again.</p>
			<p>Alice waited a little, half ex­pect­ing to see it again, but it did not ap­pear, and after a minute or two she walked on in the dir­ec­tion in which the March Hare was said to live. “I’ve seen hat­ters be­fore,” she said to her­self; “the March Hare will be much the most in­ter­est­ing, and per­haps as this is May it won’t be rav­ing mad—at least not so mad as it was in March.” As she said this, she looked up, and there was the Cat again, sit­ting on a branch of a tree.</p>
			<p>“Did you say pig, or fig?” said the Cat.</p>
			<p>“I said pig,” replied Alice; “and I wish you wouldn’t keep ap­pear­ing and van­ish­ing so sud­denly: you make one quite giddy.”</p>
			<p>“All right,” said the Cat; and this time it van­ished quite slowly, be­gin­ning with the end of the tail, and end­ing with the grin, which re­mained some time after the rest of it had gone.</p>
			<p>“Well! I’ve of­ten seen a cat without a grin,” thought Alice; “but a grin without a cat! It’s the most curi­ous thing I ever saw in my life!”</p>
			<p>She had not gone much farther be­fore she came in sight of the house of the March Hare: she thought it must be the right house, be­cause the chim­neys were shaped like ears and the roof was thatched with fur. It was so large a house, that she did not like to go nearer till she had nibbled some more of the left-hand bit of mush­room, and raised her­self to about two feet high: even then she walked up to­wards it rather tim­idly, say­ing to her­self, “Sup­pose it should be rav­ing mad after all! I al­most wish I’d gone to see the Hat­ter in­stead!”</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
