<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-GB" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: http://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>Chapter 8: The Queen’s Croquet-Ground</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-8" epub:type="chapter">
			<h2 epub:type="title">
				<span epub:type="z3998:roman">VIII</span>
				<span class="subtitle" epub:type="subtitle">The Queen’s Cro­quet-Ground</span>
			</h2>
			<p>A large rose-tree stood near the en­trance of the garden: the roses grow­ing on it were white, but there were three garden­ers at it, busily paint­ing them red. Alice thought this a very curi­ous thing, and she went nearer to watch them, and just as she came up to them she heard one of them say, “Look out now, Five! Don’t go splash­ing paint over me like that!”</p>
			<p>“I couldn’t help it,” said Five, in a sulky tone; “Seven jogged my el­bow.”</p>
			<p>On which Seven looked up and said, “That’s right, Five! Al­ways lay the blame on oth­ers!”</p>
			<p>“<em>You’d</em> bet­ter not talk!” said Five. “I heard the Queen say only yes­ter­day you de­served to be be­headed!”</p>
			<p>“What for?” said the one who had spoken first.</p>
			<p>“That’s none of <em>your</em> busi­ness, Two!” said Seven.</p>
			<p>“Yes, it <em>is</em> his busi­ness!” said Five, “and I’ll tell him—it was for bring­ing the cook tulip-roots in­stead of onions.”</p>
			<p>Seven flung down his brush, and had just be­gun “Well, of all the un­just things—” when his eye chanced to fall upon Alice, as she stood watch­ing them, and he checked him­self sud­denly: the oth­ers looked round also, and all of them bowed low.</p>
			<p>“Would you tell me,” said Alice, a little tim­idly, “why you are paint­ing those roses?”</p>
			<p>Five and Seven said noth­ing, but looked at Two. Two began in a low voice, “Why the fact is, you see, Miss, this here ought to have been a <em>red</em> rose-tree, and we put a white one in by mis­take; and if the Queen was to find it out, we should all have our heads cut off, you know. So you see, Miss, we’re do­ing our best, afore she comes, to—” At this mo­ment Five, who had been anxiously look­ing across the garden, called out “The Queen! The Queen!” and the three garden­ers in­stantly threw them­selves flat upon their faces. There was a sound of many foot­steps, and Alice looked round, eager to see the Queen.</p>
			<p>First came ten sol­diers car­ry­ing clubs; these were all shaped like the three garden­ers, ob­long and flat, with their hands and feet at the corners: next the ten courtiers; these were or­na­men­ted all over with dia­monds, and walked two and two, as the sol­diers did. After these came the royal chil­dren; there were ten of them, and the little dears came jump­ing mer­rily along hand in hand, in couples: they were all or­na­men­ted with hearts. Next came the guests, mostly Kings and Queens, and among them Alice re­cog­nised the White Rab­bit: it was talk­ing in a hur­ried nervous man­ner, smil­ing at everything that was said, and went by without no­ti­cing her. Then fol­lowed the Knave of Hearts, car­ry­ing the King’s crown on a crim­son vel­vet cush­ion; and, last of all this grand pro­ces­sion, came the King and Queen of Hearts.</p>
			<p>Alice was rather doubt­ful whether she ought not to lie down on her face like the three garden­ers, but she could not re­mem­ber ever hav­ing heard of such a rule at pro­ces­sions; “and be­sides, what would be the use of a pro­ces­sion,” thought she, “if people had all to lie down upon their faces, so that they couldn’t see it?” So she stood still where she was, and waited.</p>
			<p>When the pro­ces­sion came op­pos­ite to Alice, they all stopped and looked at her, and the Queen said severely, “Who is this?” She said it to the Knave of Hearts, who only bowed and smiled in reply.</p>
			<p>“Idiot!” said the Queen, toss­ing her head im­pa­tiently; and, turn­ing to Alice, she went on, “What’s your name, child?”</p>
			<p>“My name is Alice, so please your Majesty,” said Alice very po­litely; but she ad­ded, to her­self, “Why, they’re only a pack of cards, after all. I needn’t be afraid of them!”</p>
			<p>“And who are <em>these</em>?” said the Queen, point­ing to the three garden­ers who were ly­ing round the rosetree; for, you see, as they were ly­ing on their faces, and the pat­tern on their backs was the same as the rest of the pack, she could not tell whether they were garden­ers, or sol­diers, or courtiers, or three of her own chil­dren.</p>
			<p>“How should I know?” said Alice, sur­prised at her own cour­age. “It’s no busi­ness of <em>mine</em>.”</p>
			<p>The Queen turned crim­son with fury, and, after glar­ing at her for a mo­ment like a wild beast, screamed “Off with her head! Off—”</p>
			<p>“Non­sense!” said Alice, very loudly and de­cidedly, and the Queen was si­lent.</p>
			<p>The King laid his hand upon her arm, and tim­idly said “Con­sider, my dear: she is only a child!”</p>
			<p>The Queen turned an­grily away from him, and said to the Knave “Turn them over!”</p>
			<p>The Knave did so, very care­fully, with one foot.</p>
			<p>“Get up!” said the Queen, in a shrill, loud voice, and the three garden­ers in­stantly jumped up, and began bow­ing to the King, the Queen, the royal chil­dren, and every­body else.</p>
			<p>“Leave off that!” screamed the Queen. “You make me giddy.” And then, turn­ing to the rose-tree, she went on, “What <em>have</em> you been do­ing here?”</p>
			<p>“May it please your Majesty,” said Two, in a very humble tone, go­ing down on one knee as he spoke, “we were try­ing—”</p>
			<p>“I see!” said the Queen, who had mean­while been ex­amin­ing the roses. “Off with their heads!” and the pro­ces­sion moved on, three of the sol­diers re­main­ing be­hind to ex­ecute the un­for­tu­nate garden­ers, who ran to Alice for pro­tec­tion.</p>
			<p>“You shan’t be be­headed!” said Alice, and she put them into a large flower­pot that stood near. The three sol­diers wandered about for a minute or two, look­ing for them, and then quietly marched off after the oth­ers.</p>
			<p>“Are their heads off?” shouted the Queen.</p>
			<p>“Their heads are gone, if it please your Majesty!” the sol­diers shouted in reply.</p>
			<p>“That’s right!” shouted the Queen. “Can you play cro­quet?”</p>
			<p>The sol­diers were si­lent, and looked at Alice, as the ques­tion was evid­ently meant for her.</p>
			<p>“Yes!” shouted Alice.</p>
			<p>“Come on, then!” roared the Queen, and Alice joined the pro­ces­sion, won­der­ing very much what would hap­pen next.</p>
			<p>“It’s—it’s a very fine day!” said a timid voice at her side. She was walk­ing by the White Rab­bit, who was peep­ing anxiously into her face.</p>
			<p>“Very,” said Alice: “—where’s the Duchess?”</p>
			<p>“Hush! Hush!” said the Rab­bit in a low, hur­ried tone. He looked anxiously over his shoulder as he spoke, and then raised him­self upon tip­toe, put his mouth close to her ear, and whispered, “She’s un­der sen­tence of ex­e­cu­tion.”</p>
			<p>“What for?” said Alice.</p>
			<p>“Did you say ‘What a pity!’?” the Rab­bit asked.</p>
			<p>“No, I didn’t,” said Alice: “I don’t think it’s at all a pity. I said ‘What for?’ ”</p>
			<p>“She boxed the Queen’s ears—” the Rab­bit began. Alice gave a little scream of laughter. “Oh, hush!” the Rab­bit whispered in a frightened tone. “The Queen will hear you! You see, she came rather late, and the Queen said—”</p>
			<p>“Get to your places!” shouted the Queen in a voice of thun­der, and people began run­ning about in all dir­ec­tions, tum­bling up against each other; how­ever, they got settled down in a minute or two, and the game began. Alice thought she had never seen such a curi­ous cro­quet-ground in her life; it was all ridges and fur­rows; the balls were live hedge­hogs, the mal­lets live flamin­goes, and the sol­diers had to double them­selves up and to stand on their hands and feet, to make the arches.</p>
			<p>The chief dif­fi­culty Alice found at first was in man­aging her flamingo: she suc­ceeded in get­ting its body tucked away, com­fort­ably enough, un­der her arm, with its legs hanging down, but gen­er­ally, just as she had got its neck nicely straightened out, and was go­ing to give the hedge­hog a blow with its head, it would twist it­self round and look up in her face, with such a puzzled ex­pres­sion that she could not help burst­ing out laugh­ing: and when she had got its head down, and was go­ing to be­gin again, it was very pro­vok­ing to find that the hedge­hog had un­rolled it­self, and was in the act of crawl­ing away: be­sides all this, there was gen­er­ally a ridge or fur­row in the way wherever she wanted to send the hedge­hog to, and, as the doubled-up sol­diers were al­ways get­ting up and walk­ing off to other parts of the ground, Alice soon came to the con­clu­sion that it was a very dif­fi­cult game in­deed.</p>
			<p>The play­ers all played at once without wait­ing for turns, quar­rel­ling all the while, and fight­ing for the hedge­hogs; and in a very short time the Queen was in a furi­ous pas­sion, and went stamp­ing about, and shout­ing “Off with his head!” or “Off with her head!” about once in a minute.</p>
			<p>Alice began to feel very un­easy: to be sure, she had not as yet had any dis­pute with the Queen, but she knew that it might hap­pen any minute, “and then,” thought she, “what would be­come of me? They’re dread­fully fond of be­head­ing people here; the great won­der is, that there’s any­one left alive!”</p>
			<p>She was look­ing about for some way of es­cape, and won­der­ing whether she could get away without be­ing seen, when she no­ticed a curi­ous ap­pear­ance in the air: it puzzled her very much at first, but, after watch­ing it a minute or two, she made it out to be a grin, and she said to her­self “It’s the Cheshire Cat: now I shall have some­body to talk to.”</p>
			<p>“How are you get­ting on?” said the Cat, as soon as there was mouth enough for it to speak with.</p>
			<p>Alice waited till the eyes ap­peared, and then nod­ded. “It’s no use speak­ing to it,” she thought, “till its ears have come, or at least one of them.” In an­other minute the whole head ap­peared, and then Alice put down her flamingo, and began an ac­count of the game, feel­ing very glad she had someone to listen to her. The Cat seemed to think that there was enough of it now in sight, and no more of it ap­peared.</p>
			<p>“I don’t think they play at all fairly,” Alice began, in rather a com­plain­ing tone, “and they all quar­rel so dread­fully one can’t hear one­self speak—and they don’t seem to have any rules in par­tic­u­lar; at least, if there are, nobody at­tends to them—and you’ve no idea how con­fus­ing it is all the things be­ing alive; for in­stance, there’s the arch I’ve got to go through next walk­ing about at the other end of the ground—and I should have cro­queted the Queen’s hedge­hog just now, only it ran away when it saw mine com­ing!”</p>
			<p>“How do you like the Queen?” said the Cat in a low voice.</p>
			<p>“Not at all,” said Alice: “she’s so ex­tremely—” Just then she no­ticed that the Queen was close be­hind her, listen­ing: so she went on, “—likely to win, that it’s hardly worth while fin­ish­ing the game.”</p>
			<p>The Queen smiled and passed on.</p>
			<p>“Who <em>are</em> you talk­ing to?” said the King, go­ing up to Alice, and look­ing at the Cat’s head with great curi­os­ity.</p>
			<p>“It’s a friend of mine—a Cheshire Cat,” said Alice: “al­low me to in­tro­duce it.”</p>
			<p>“I don’t like the look of it at all,” said the King: “how­ever, it may kiss my hand if it likes.”</p>
			<p>“I’d rather not,” the Cat re­marked.</p>
			<p>“Don’t be im­per­tin­ent,” said the King, “and don’t look at me like that!” He got be­hind Alice as he spoke.</p>
			<p>“A cat may look at a king,” said Alice. “I’ve read that in some book, but I don’t re­mem­ber where.”</p>
			<p>“Well, it must be re­moved,” said the King very de­cidedly, and he called the Queen, who was passing at the mo­ment, “My dear! I wish you would have this cat re­moved!”</p>
			<p>The Queen had only one way of set­tling all dif­fi­culties, great or small. “Off with his head!” she said, without even look­ing round.</p>
			<p>“I’ll fetch the ex­e­cu­tioner my­self,” said the King eagerly, and he hur­ried off.</p>
			<p>Alice thought she might as well go back, and see how the game was go­ing on, as she heard the Queen’s voice in the dis­tance, scream­ing with pas­sion. She had already heard her sen­tence three of the play­ers to be ex­ecuted for hav­ing missed their turns, and she did not like the look of things at all, as the game was in such con­fu­sion that she never knew whether it was her turn or not. So she went in search of her hedge­hog.</p>
			<p>The hedge­hog was en­gaged in a fight with an­other hedge­hog, which seemed to Alice an ex­cel­lent op­por­tun­ity for cro­quet­ing one of them with the other: the only dif­fi­culty was, that her flamingo was gone across to the other side of the garden, where Alice could see it try­ing in a help­less sort of way to fly up into a tree.</p>
			<p>By the time she had caught the flamingo and brought it back, the fight was over, and both the hedge­hogs were out of sight: “but it doesn’t mat­ter much,” thought Alice, “as all the arches are gone from this side of the ground.” So she tucked it away un­der her arm, that it might not es­cape again, and went back for a little more con­ver­sa­tion with her friend.</p>
			<p>When she got back to the Cheshire Cat, she was sur­prised to find quite a large crowd col­lec­ted round it: there was a dis­pute go­ing on between the ex­e­cu­tioner, the King, and the Queen, who were all talk­ing at once, while all the rest were quite si­lent, and looked very un­com­fort­able.</p>
			<p>The mo­ment Alice ap­peared, she was ap­pealed to by all three to settle the ques­tion, and they re­peated their ar­gu­ments to her, though, as they all spoke at once, she found it very hard in­deed to make out ex­actly what they said.</p>
			<p>The ex­e­cu­tioner’s ar­gu­ment was, that you couldn’t cut off a head un­less there was a body to cut it off from: that he had never had to do such a thing be­fore, and he wasn’t go­ing to be­gin at <em>his</em> time of life.</p>
			<p>The King’s ar­gu­ment was, that any­thing that had a head could be be­headed, and that you weren’t to talk non­sense.</p>
			<p>The Queen’s ar­gu­ment was, that if some­thing wasn’t done about it in less than no time she’d have every­body ex­ecuted, all round. (It was this last re­mark that had made the whole party look so grave and anxious.)</p>
			<p>Alice could think of noth­ing else to say but “It be­longs to the Duchess: you’d bet­ter ask <em>her</em> about it.”</p>
			<p>“She’s in prison,” the Queen said to the ex­e­cu­tioner: “fetch her here.” And the ex­e­cu­tioner went off like an ar­row.</p>
			<p>The Cat’s head began fad­ing away the mo­ment he was gone, and, by the time he had come back with the Dutchess, it had en­tirely dis­ap­peared; so the King and the ex­e­cu­tioner ran wildly up and down look­ing for it, while the rest of the party went back to the game.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
