<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-GB" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: http://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>Chapter 1: Down the Rabbit-Hole</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-1" epub:type="chapter">
			<h2 epub:type="title">
				<span epub:type="z3998:roman">I</span>
				<span class="subtitle" epub:type="subtitle">Down the Rab­bit-Hole</span>
			</h2>
			<p>Alice was be­gin­ning to get very tired of sit­ting by her sis­ter on the bank, and of hav­ing noth­ing to do: once or twice she had peeped into the book her sis­ter was read­ing, but it had no pic­tures or con­ver­sa­tions in it, “and what is the use of a book,” thought Alice “without pic­tures or con­ver­sa­tion?”</p>
			<p>So she was con­sid­er­ing in her own mind (as well as she could, for the hot day made her feel very sleepy and stu­pid), whether the pleas­ure of mak­ing a daisy-chain would be worth the trouble of get­ting up and pick­ing the dais­ies, when sud­denly a White Rab­bit with pink eyes ran close by her.</p>
			<p>There was noth­ing so <em>very</em> re­mark­able in that; nor did Alice think it so very much out of the way to hear the Rab­bit say to it­self, “Oh dear! Oh dear! I shall be late!” (when she thought it over af­ter­wards, it oc­curred to her that she ought to have wondered at this, but at the time it all seemed quite nat­ural); but when the Rab­bit ac­tu­ally took a watch out of its waist­coat-pocket, and looked at it, and then hur­ried on, Alice star­ted to her feet, for it flashed across her mind that she had never be­fore seen a rab­bit with either a waist­coat-pocket, or a watch to take out of it, and burn­ing with curi­os­ity, she ran across the field after it, and for­tu­nately was just in time to see it pop down a large rab­bit-hole un­der the hedge.</p>
			<p>In an­other mo­ment down went Alice after it, never once con­sid­er­ing how in the world she was to get out again.</p>
			<p>The rab­bit-hole went straight on like a tun­nel for some way, and then dipped sud­denly down, so sud­denly that Alice had not a mo­ment to think about stop­ping her­self be­fore she found her­self fall­ing down a very deep well.</p>
			<p>Either the well was very deep, or she fell very slowly, for she had plenty of time as she went down to look about her and to won­der what was go­ing to hap­pen next. First, she tried to look down and make out what she was com­ing to, but it was too dark to see any­thing; then she looked at the sides of the well, and no­ticed that they were filled with cup­boards and book­shelves; here and there she saw maps and pic­tures hung upon pegs. She took down a jar from one of the shelves as she passed; it was la­belled “<b>Orange Marmalade</b>,” but to her great dis­ap­point­ment it was empty: she did not like to drop the jar for fear of killing some­body, so man­aged to put it into one of the cup­boards as she fell past it.</p>
			<p>“Well!” thought Alice to her­self, “after such a fall as this, I shall think noth­ing of tum­bling down stairs! How brave they’ll all think me at home! Why, I wouldn’t say any­thing about it, even if I fell off the top of the house!” (Which was very likely true.)</p>
			<p>Down, down, down. Would the fall <em>never</em> come to an end! “I won­der how many miles I’ve fallen by this time?” she said aloud. “I must be get­ting some­where near the centre of the earth. Let me see: that would be four thou­sand miles down, I think—” (for, you see, Alice had learnt sev­eral things of this sort in her les­sons in the school­room, and though this was not a <em>very</em> good op­por­tun­ity for show­ing off her know­ledge, as there was no one to listen to her, still it was good prac­tice to say it over) “—yes, that’s about the right dis­tance—but then I won­der what Lat­it­ude or Lon­git­ude I’ve got to?” (Alice had no idea what Lat­it­ude was, or Lon­git­ude either, but thought they were nice grand words to say.)</p>
			<p>Presently she began again. “I won­der if I shall fall right <em>through</em> the earth! How funny it’ll seem to come out among the people that walk with their heads down­ward! The An­ti­path­ies, I think—” (she was rather glad there <em>was</em> no one listen­ing, this time, as it didn’t sound at all the right word) “—but I shall have to ask them what the name of the coun­try is, you know. Please, Ma’am, is this New Zea­l­and or Aus­tralia?” (and she tried to curt­sey as she spoke—fancy curt­sey­ing as you’re fall­ing through the air! Do you think you could man­age it?) “And what an ig­nor­ant little girl she’ll think me for ask­ing! No, it’ll never do to ask: per­haps I shall see it writ­ten up some­where.”</p>
			<p>Down, down, down. There was noth­ing else to do, so Alice soon began talk­ing again. “Di­nah’ll miss me very much to­night, I should think!” (Di­nah was the cat.) “I hope they’ll re­mem­ber her sau­cer of milk at teatime. Di­nah my dear! I wish you were down here with me! There are no mice in the air, I’m afraid, but you might catch a bat, and that’s very like a mouse, you know. But do cats eat bats, I won­der?” And here Alice began to get rather sleepy, and went on say­ing to her­self, in a dreamy sort of way, “Do cats eat bats? Do cats eat bats?” and some­times, “Do bats eat cats?” for, you see, as she couldn’t an­swer either ques­tion, it didn’t much mat­ter which way she put it. She felt that she was doz­ing off, and had just be­gun to dream that she was walk­ing hand in hand with Di­nah, and say­ing to her very earn­estly, “Now, Di­nah, tell me the truth: did you ever eat a bat?” when sud­denly, thump! thump! down she came upon a heap of sticks and dry leaves, and the fall was over.</p>
			<p>Alice was not a bit hurt, and she jumped up on to her feet in a mo­ment: she looked up, but it was all dark over­head; be­fore her was an­other long pas­sage, and the White Rab­bit was still in sight, hur­ry­ing down it. There was not a mo­ment to be lost: away went Alice like the wind, and was just in time to hear it say, as it turned a corner, “Oh my ears and whiskers, how late it’s get­ting!” She was close be­hind it when she turned the corner, but the Rab­bit was no longer to be seen: she found her­self in a long, low hall, which was lit up by a row of lamps hanging from the roof.</p>
			<p>There were doors all round the hall, but they were all locked; and when Alice had been all the way down one side and up the other, try­ing every door, she walked sadly down the middle, won­der­ing how she was ever to get out again.</p>
			<p>Sud­denly she came upon a little three-legged table, all made of solid glass; there was noth­ing on it ex­cept a tiny golden key, and Alice’s first thought was that it might be­long to one of the doors of the hall; but, alas! either the locks were too large, or the key was too small, but at any rate it would not open any of them. However, on the second time round, she came upon a low cur­tain she had not no­ticed be­fore, and be­hind it was a little door about fif­teen inches high: she tried the little golden key in the lock, and to her great de­light it fit­ted!</p>
			<p>Alice opened the door and found that it led into a small pas­sage, not much lar­ger than a rat-hole: she knelt down and looked along the pas­sage into the love­li­est garden you ever saw. How she longed to get out of that dark hall, and wander about among those beds of bright flowers and those cool foun­tains, but she could not even get her head though the door­way; “and even if my head <em>would</em> go through,” thought poor Alice, “it would be of very little use without my shoulders. Oh, how I wish I could shut up like a tele­scope! I think I could, if I only know how to be­gin.” For, you see, so many out-of-the-way things had happened lately, that Alice had be­gun to think that very few things in­deed were really im­possible.</p>
			<p>There seemed to be no use in wait­ing by the little door, so she went back to the table, half hop­ing she might find an­other key on it, or at any rate a book of rules for shut­ting people up like tele­scopes: this time she found a little bottle on it, (“which cer­tainly was not here be­fore,” said Alice,) and round the neck of the bottle was a pa­per la­bel, with the words “<b>Drink Me</b>” beau­ti­fully prin­ted on it in large let­ters.</p>
			<p>It was all very well to say “Drink me,” but the wise little Alice was not go­ing to do <em>that</em> in a hurry. “No, I’ll look first,” she said, “and see whether it’s marked ‘poison’ or not”; for she had read sev­eral nice little his­tor­ies about chil­dren who had got burnt, and eaten up by wild beasts and other un­pleas­ant things, all be­cause they would not re­mem­ber the simple rules their friends had taught them: such as, that a red-hot poker will burn you if you hold it too long; and that if you cut your fin­ger very deeply with a knife, it usu­ally bleeds; and she had never for­got­ten that, if you drink much from a bottle marked “poison,” it is al­most cer­tain to dis­agree with you, sooner or later.</p>
			<p>However, this bottle was <em>not</em> marked “poison,” so Alice ven­tured to taste it, and find­ing it very nice, (it had, in fact, a sort of mixed fla­vour of cherry-tart, cus­tard, pine­apple, roast tur­key, tof­fee, and hot buttered toast,) she very soon fin­ished it off.</p>
			<p>“What a curi­ous feel­ing!” said Alice; “I must be shut­ting up like a tele­scope.”</p>
			<p>And so it was in­deed: she was now only ten inches high, and her face brightened up at the thought that she was now the right size for go­ing through the little door into that lovely garden. First, how­ever, she waited for a few minutes to see if she was go­ing to shrink any fur­ther: she felt a little nervous about this; “for it might end, you know,” said Alice to her­self, “in my go­ing out al­to­gether, like a candle. I won­der what I should be like then?” And she tried to fancy what the flame of a candle is like after the candle is blown out, for she could not re­mem­ber ever hav­ing seen such a thing.</p>
			<p>After a while, find­ing that noth­ing more happened, she de­cided on go­ing into the garden at once; but, alas for poor Alice! when she got to the door, she found she had for­got­ten the little golden key, and when she went back to the table for it, she found she could not pos­sibly reach it: she could see it quite plainly through the glass, and she tried her best to climb up one of the legs of the table, but it was too slip­pery; and when she had tired her­self out with try­ing, the poor little thing sat down and cried.</p>
			<p>“Come, there’s no use in cry­ing like that!” said Alice to her­self, rather sharply; “I ad­vise you to leave off this minute!” She gen­er­ally gave her­self very good ad­vice, (though she very sel­dom fol­lowed it), and some­times she scol­ded her­self so severely as to bring tears into her eyes; and once she re­membered try­ing to box her own ears for hav­ing cheated her­self in a game of cro­quet she was play­ing against her­self, for this curi­ous child was very fond of pre­tend­ing to be two people. “But it’s no use now,” thought poor Alice, “to pre­tend to be two people! Why, there’s hardly enough of me left to make <em>one</em> re­spect­able per­son!”</p>
			<p>Soon her eye fell on a little glass box that was ly­ing un­der the table: she opened it, and found in it a very small cake, on which the words “<b>Eat Me</b>” were beau­ti­fully marked in cur­rants. “Well, I’ll eat it,” said Alice, “and if it makes me grow lar­ger, I can reach the key; and if it makes me grow smal­ler, I can creep un­der the door; so either way I’ll get into the garden, and I don’t care which hap­pens!”</p>
			<p>She ate a little bit, and said anxiously to her­self, “Which way? Which way?”, hold­ing her hand on the top of her head to feel which way it was grow­ing, and she was quite sur­prised to find that she re­mained the same size: to be sure, this gen­er­ally hap­pens when one eats cake, but Alice had got so much into the way of ex­pect­ing noth­ing but out-of-the-way things to hap­pen, that it seemed quite dull and stu­pid for life to go on in the com­mon way.</p>
			<p>So she set to work, and very soon fin­ished off the cake.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
