<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-GB" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: http://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>Chapter 3: A Caucus-Race and a Long Tale</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-3" epub:type="chapter">
			<h2 epub:type="title">
				<span epub:type="z3998:roman">III</span>
				<span class="subtitle" epub:type="subtitle">A Caucus-Race and a Long Tale</span>
			</h2>
			<p>They were in­deed a queer-look­ing party that as­sembled on the bank—the birds with draggled feath­ers, the an­im­als with their fur cling­ing close to them, and all drip­ping wet, cross, and un­com­fort­able.</p>
			<p>The first ques­tion of course was, how to get dry again: they had a con­sulta­tion about this, and after a few minutes it seemed quite nat­ural to Alice to find her­self talk­ing fa­mil­iarly with them, as if she had known them all her life. Indeed, she had quite a long ar­gu­ment with the Lory, who at last turned sulky, and would only say, “I am older than you, and must know bet­ter”; and this Alice would not al­low without know­ing how old it was, and, as the Lory pos­it­ively re­fused to tell its age, there was no more to be said.</p>
			<p>At last the Mouse, who seemed to be a per­son of au­thor­ity among them, called out, “Sit down, all of you, and listen to me! <em>I’ll</em> soon make you dry enough!” They all sat down at once, in a large ring, with the Mouse in the middle. Alice kept her eyes anxiously fixed on it, for she felt sure she would catch a bad cold if she did not get dry very soon.</p>
			<p>“Ahem!” said the Mouse with an im­port­ant air, “are you all ready? This is the driest thing I know. Si­lence all round, if you please! ‘Wil­liam the Con­queror, whose cause was fa­voured by the pope, was soon sub­mit­ted to by the Eng­lish, who wanted lead­ers, and had been of late much ac­cus­tomed to usurp­a­tion and con­quest. Ed­win and Mor­car, the earls of Mer­cia and Northum­bria—’ ”</p>
			<p>“Ugh!” said the Lory, with a shiver.</p>
			<p>“I beg your par­don!” said the Mouse, frown­ing, but very po­litely: “Did you speak?”</p>
			<p>“Not I!” said the Lory hast­ily.</p>
			<p>“I thought you did,” said the Mouse. “—I pro­ceed. ‘Ed­win and Mor­car, the earls of Mer­cia and Northum­bria, de­clared for him: and even Stig­and, the pat­ri­otic arch­bishop of Can­ter­bury, found it ad­vis­able—’ ”</p>
			<p>“Found <em>what?</em>” said the Duck.</p>
			<p>“Found <em>it</em>,” the Mouse replied rather crossly: “of course you know what ‘it’ means.”</p>
			<p>“I know what ‘it’ means well enough, when <em>I</em> find a thing,” said the Duck: “it’s gen­er­ally a frog or a worm. The ques­tion is, what did the arch­bishop find?”</p>
			<p>The Mouse did not no­tice this ques­tion, but hur­riedly went on, “ ‘—found it ad­vis­able to go with Edgar Ath­el­ing to meet Wil­liam and of­fer him the crown. Wil­liam’s con­duct at first was mod­er­ate. But the in­solence of his Nor­mans—’ How are you get­ting on now, my dear?” it con­tin­ued, turn­ing to Alice as it spoke.</p>
			<p>“As wet as ever,” said Alice in a mel­an­choly tone: “it doesn’t seem to dry me at all.”</p>
			<p>“In that case,” said the Dodo sol­emnly, rising to its feet, “I move that the meet­ing ad­journ, for the im­me­di­ate ad­op­tion of more en­er­getic rem­ed­ies—”</p>
			<p>“Speak Eng­lish!” said the Eag­let. “I don’t know the mean­ing of half those long words, and, what’s more, I don’t be­lieve you do either!” And the Eag­let bent down its head to hide a smile: some of the other birds tittered aud­ibly.</p>
			<p>“What I was go­ing to say,” said the Dodo in an of­fen­ded tone, “was, that the best thing to get us dry would be a Caucus-race.”</p>
			<p>“What <em>is</em> a Caucus-race?” said Alice; not that she wanted much to know, but the Dodo had paused as if it thought that some­body ought to speak, and no one else seemed in­clined to say any­thing.</p>
			<p>“Why,” said the Dodo, “the best way to ex­plain it is to do it.” (And, as you might like to try the thing your­self, some winter day, I will tell you how the Dodo man­aged it.)</p>
			<p>First it marked out a race­course, in a sort of circle, (“the ex­act shape doesn’t mat­ter,” it said,) and then all the party were placed along the course, here and there. There was no “One, two, three, and away,” but they began run­ning when they liked, and left off when they liked, so that it was not easy to know when the race was over. However, when they had been run­ning half an hour or so, and were quite dry again, the Dodo sud­denly called out “The race is over!” and they all crowded round it, pant­ing, and ask­ing, “But who has won?”</p>
			<p>This ques­tion the Dodo could not an­swer without a great deal of thought, and it sat for a long time with one fin­ger pressed upon its fore­head (the po­s­i­tion in which you usu­ally see Shakespeare, in the pic­tures of him), while the rest waited in si­lence. At last the Dodo said, “<em>every­body</em> has won, and all must have prizes.”</p>
			<p>“But who is to give the prizes?” quite a chorus of voices asked.</p>
			<p>“Why, <em>she</em>, of course,” said the Dodo, point­ing to Alice with one fin­ger; and the whole party at once crowded round her, call­ing out in a con­fused way, “Pr­izes! Pr­izes!”</p>
			<p>Alice had no idea what to do, and in des­pair she put her hand in her pocket, and pulled out a box of com­fits, (luck­ily the salt wa­ter had not got into it), and handed them round as prizes. There was ex­actly one apiece all round.</p>
			<p>“But she must have a prize her­self, you know,” said the Mouse.</p>
			<p>“Of course,” the Dodo replied very gravely. “What else have you got in your pocket?” he went on, turn­ing to Alice.</p>
			<p>“Only a thimble,” said Alice sadly.</p>
			<p>“Hand it over here,” said the Dodo.</p>
			<p>Then they all crowded round her once more, while the Dodo sol­emnly presen­ted the thimble, say­ing “We beg your ac­cept­ance of this el­eg­ant thimble”; and, when it had fin­ished this short speech, they all cheered.</p>
			<p>Alice thought the whole thing very ab­surd, but they all looked so grave that she did not dare to laugh; and, as she could not think of any­thing to say, she simply bowed, and took the thimble, look­ing as sol­emn as she could.</p>
			<p>The next thing was to eat the com­fits: this caused some noise and con­fu­sion, as the large birds com­plained that they could not taste theirs, and the small ones choked and had to be pat­ted on the back. However, it was over at last, and they sat down again in a ring, and begged the Mouse to tell them some­thing more.</p>
			<p>“You prom­ised to tell me your his­tory, you know,” said Alice, “and why it is you hate—C and D,” she ad­ded in a whis­per, half afraid that it would be of­fen­ded again.</p>
			<p>“Mine is a long and a sad tale!” said the Mouse, turn­ing to Alice, and sigh­ing.</p>
			<p>“It <em>is</em> a long tail, cer­tainly,” said Alice, look­ing down with won­der at the Mouse’s tail; “but why do you call it sad?” And she kept on puzz­ling about it while the Mouse was speak­ing, so that her idea of the tale was some­thing like this:—</p>
			<blockquote class="z3998-poem" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<p class="first-child">
					<span>“Fury said to a mouse,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That he met in the house,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>‘Let us both go to law: <em>I</em> will pro­sec­ute <em>you</em>.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>—Come, I’ll take no denial;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We must have a trial:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For really this morn­ing I’ve noth­ing to do.’</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Said the mouse to the cur,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>‘Such a trial, dear Sir,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>with no jury or judge,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>would be wast­ing our breath.’</span>
					<br/>
					<span>‘I’ll be judge, I’ll be jury,’</span>
					<br/>
					<span>said cun­ning old Fury:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>‘I’ll try the whole cause,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>and con­demn you to death.’ ”</span>
				</p>
			</blockquote>
			<p>“You are not at­tend­ing!” said the Mouse to Alice severely. “What are you think­ing of?”</p>
			<p>“I beg your par­don,” said Alice very humbly: “you had got to the fifth bend, I think?”</p>
			<p>“I had <em>not!</em>” cried the Mouse, sharply and very an­grily.</p>
			<p>“A knot!” said Alice, al­ways ready to make her­self use­ful, and look­ing anxiously about her. “Oh, do let me help to undo it!”</p>
			<p>“I shall do noth­ing of the sort,” said the Mouse, get­ting up and walk­ing away. “You in­sult me by talk­ing such non­sense!”</p>
			<p>“I didn’t mean it!” pleaded poor Alice. “But you’re so eas­ily of­fen­ded, you know!”</p>
			<p>The Mouse only growled in reply.</p>
			<p>“Please come back and fin­ish your story!” Alice called after it; and the oth­ers all joined in chorus, “Yes, please do!” but the Mouse only shook its head im­pa­tiently, and walked a little quicker.</p>
			<p>“What a pity it wouldn’t stay!” sighed the Lory, as soon as it was quite out of sight; and an old Crab took the op­por­tun­ity of say­ing to her daugh­ter “Ah, my dear! Let this be a les­son to you never to lose <em>your</em> tem­per!” “Hold your tongue, Ma!” said the young Crab, a little snap­pishly. “You’re enough to try the pa­tience of an oyster!”</p>
			<p>“I wish I had our Di­nah here, I know I do!” said Alice aloud, ad­dress­ing nobody in par­tic­u­lar. “She’d soon fetch it back!”</p>
			<p>“And who is Di­nah, if I might ven­ture to ask the ques­tion?” said the Lory.</p>
			<p>Alice replied eagerly, for she was al­ways ready to talk about her pet: “Di­nah’s our cat. And she’s such a cap­ital one for catch­ing mice you can’t think! And oh, I wish you could see her after the birds! Why, she’ll eat a little bird as soon as look at it!”</p>
			<p>This speech caused a re­mark­able sen­sa­tion among the party. Some of the birds hur­ried off at once: one old Mag­pie began wrap­ping it­self up very care­fully, re­mark­ing, “I really must be get­ting home; the night-air doesn’t suit my throat!” and a Canary called out in a trem­bling voice to its chil­dren, “Come away, my dears! It’s high time you were all in bed!” On vari­ous pre­texts they all moved off, and Alice was soon left alone.</p>
			<p>“I wish I hadn’t men­tioned Di­nah!” she said to her­self in a mel­an­choly tone. “Nobody seems to like her, down here, and I’m sure she’s the best cat in the world! Oh, my dear Di­nah! I won­der if I shall ever see you any more!” And here poor Alice began to cry again, for she felt very lonely and low-spir­ited. In a little while, how­ever, she again heard a little pat­ter­ing of foot­steps in the dis­tance, and she looked up eagerly, half hop­ing that the Mouse had changed his mind, and was com­ing back to fin­ish his story.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
