<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-GB" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: http://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>Chapter 2: The Pool of Tears</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-2" epub:type="chapter">
			<h2 epub:type="title">
				<span epub:type="z3998:roman">II</span>
				<span class="subtitle" epub:type="subtitle">The Pool of Tears</span>
			</h2>
			<p>“Curi­ouser and curi­ouser!” cried Alice (she was so much sur­prised, that for the mo­ment she quite for­got how to speak good Eng­lish); “now I’m open­ing out like the largest tele­scope that ever was! Good­bye, feet!” (for when she looked down at her feet, they seemed to be al­most out of sight, they were get­ting so far off). “Oh, my poor little feet, I won­der who will put on your shoes and stock­ings for you now, dears? I’m sure <em>I</em> shan’t be able! I shall be a great deal too far off to trouble my­self about you: you must man­age the best way you can;—but I must be kind to them,” thought Alice, “or per­haps they won’t walk the way I want to go! Let me see: I’ll give them a new pair of boots every Christ­mas.”</p>
			<p>And she went on plan­ning to her­self how she would man­age it. “They must go by the car­rier,” she thought; “and how funny it’ll seem, send­ing presents to one’s own feet! And how odd the dir­ec­tions will look!</p>
			<blockquote class="address z3998-verse" epub:type="z3998:verse">
				<p class="first-child">
					<span>Alice’s Right Foot, Esq.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Hearth­rug,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Near the Fender,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">(With Alice’s Love).</span>
				</p>
			</blockquote>
			<p>Oh dear, what non­sense I’m talk­ing!”</p>
			<p>Just then her head struck against the roof of the hall: in fact she was now more than nine feet high, and she at once took up the little golden key and hur­ried off to the garden door.</p>
			<p>Poor Alice! It was as much as she could do, ly­ing down on one side, to look through into the garden with one eye; but to get through was more hope­less than ever: she sat down and began to cry again.</p>
			<p>“You ought to be ashamed of your­self,” said Alice, “a great girl like you,” (she might well say this), “to go on cry­ing in this way! Stop this mo­ment, I tell you!” But she went on all the same, shed­ding gal­lons of tears, un­til there was a large pool all round her, about four inches deep and reach­ing half down the hall.</p>
			<p>After a time she heard a little pat­ter­ing of feet in the dis­tance, and she hast­ily dried her eyes to see what was com­ing. It was the White Rab­bit re­turn­ing, splen­didly dressed, with a pair of white kid gloves in one hand and a large fan in the other: he came trot­ting along in a great hurry, mut­ter­ing to him­self as he came, “Oh! the Duchess, the Duchess! Oh! <em>won’t</em> she be sav­age if I’ve kept her wait­ing!” Alice felt so des­per­ate that she was ready to ask help of any­one; so, when the Rab­bit came near her, she began, in a low, timid voice, “If you please, sir—” The Rab­bit star­ted vi­ol­ently, dropped the white kid gloves and the fan, and skur­ried away into the dark­ness as hard as he could go.</p>
			<p>Alice took up the fan and gloves, and, as the hall was very hot, she kept fan­ning her­self all the time she went on talk­ing: “Dear, dear! How queer everything is today! And yes­ter­day things went on just as usual. I won­der if I’ve been changed in the night? Let me think: <em>was</em> I the same when I got up this morn­ing? I al­most think I can re­mem­ber feel­ing a little dif­fer­ent. But if I’m not the same, the next ques­tion is, Who in the world am I? Ah, that’s the great puzzle!” And she began think­ing over all the chil­dren she knew that were of the same age as her­self, to see if she could have been changed for any of them.</p>
			<p>“I’m sure I’m not Ada,” she said, “for her hair goes in such long ring­lets, and mine doesn’t go in ring­lets at all; and I’m sure I can’t be Ma­bel, for I know all sorts of things, and she, oh! she knows such a very little! Besides, <em>she’s</em> she, and I’m I, and—oh dear, how puzz­ling it all is! I’ll try if I know all the things I used to know. Let me see: four times five is twelve, and four times six is thir­teen, and four times seven is—oh dear! I shall never get to twenty at that rate! However, the Mul­ti­plic­a­tion Table doesn’t sig­nify: let’s try Geo­graphy. Lon­don is the cap­ital of Paris, and Paris is the cap­ital of Rome, and Rome—no, that’s all wrong, I’m cer­tain! I must have been changed for Ma­bel! I’ll try and say ‘How doth the little—’ ” and she crossed her hands on her lap as if she were say­ing les­sons, and began to re­peat it, but her voice soun­ded hoarse and strange, and the words did not come the same as they used to do:—</p>
			<blockquote class="z3998-poem" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<p class="first-child">
					<span>“How doth the little cro­codile</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Im­prove his shin­ing tail,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And pour the wa­ters of the Nile</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">On every golden scale!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“How cheer­fully he seems to grin,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">How neatly spread his claws,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And wel­come little fishes in</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1"><em>With gently smil­ing jaws!</em>”</span>
				</p>
			</blockquote>
			<p>“I’m sure those are not the right words,” said poor Alice, and her eyes filled with tears again as she went on, “I must be Ma­bel after all, and I shall have to go and live in that poky little house, and have next to no toys to play with, and oh! ever so many les­sons to learn! No, I’ve made up my mind about it; if I’m Ma­bel, I’ll stay down here! It’ll be no use their put­ting their heads down and say­ing ‘Come up again, dear!’ I shall only look up and say ‘Who am I then? Tell me that first, and then, if I like be­ing that per­son, I’ll come up: if not, I’ll stay down here till I’m some­body else’—but, oh dear!” cried Alice, with a sud­den burst of tears, “I do wish they <em>would</em> put their heads down! I am so very tired of be­ing all alone here!”</p>
			<p>As she said this she looked down at her hands, and was sur­prised to see that she had put on one of the Rab­bit’s little white kid gloves while she was talk­ing. “How <em>can</em> I have done that?” she thought. “I must be grow­ing small again.” She got up and went to the table to meas­ure her­self by it, and found that, as nearly as she could guess, she was now about two feet high, and was go­ing on shrink­ing rap­idly: she soon found out that the cause of this was the fan she was hold­ing, and she dropped it hast­ily, just in time to avoid shrink­ing away al­to­gether.</p>
			<p>“That <em>was</em> a nar­row es­cape!” said Alice, a good deal frightened at the sud­den change, but very glad to find her­self still in ex­ist­ence; “and now for the garden!” and she ran with all speed back to the little door: but, alas! the little door was shut again, and the little golden key was ly­ing on the glass table as be­fore, “and things are worse than ever,” thought the poor child, “for I never was so small as this be­fore, never! And I de­clare it’s too bad, that it is!”</p>
			<p>As she said these words her foot slipped, and in an­other mo­ment, splash! she was up to her chin in salt wa­ter. Her first idea was that she had some­how fallen into the sea, “and in that case I can go back by rail­way,” she said to her­self. (Alice had been to the sea­side once in her life, and had come to the gen­eral con­clu­sion, that wherever you go to on the Eng­lish coast you find a num­ber of bathing ma­chines in the sea, some chil­dren dig­ging in the sand with wooden spades, then a row of lodging houses, and be­hind them a rail­way sta­tion.) However, she soon made out that she was in the pool of tears which she had wept when she was nine feet high.</p>
			<p>“I wish I hadn’t cried so much!” said Alice, as she swam about, try­ing to find her way out. “I shall be pun­ished for it now, I sup­pose, by be­ing drowned in my own tears! That <em>will</em> be a queer thing, to be sure! However, everything is queer today.”</p>
			<p>Just then she heard some­thing splash­ing about in the pool a little way off, and she swam nearer to make out what it was: at first she thought it must be a wal­rus or hip­po­pot­amus, but then she re­membered how small she was now, and she soon made out that it was only a mouse that had slipped in like her­self.</p>
			<p>“Would it be of any use, now,” thought Alice, “to speak to this mouse? Everything is so out-of-the-way down here, that I should think very likely it can talk: at any rate, there’s no harm in try­ing.” So she began: “O Mouse, do you know the way out of this pool? I am very tired of swim­ming about here, O Mouse!” (Alice thought this must be the right way of speak­ing to a mouse: she had never done such a thing be­fore, but she re­membered hav­ing seen in her brother’s Latin Gram­mar, “A mouse—of a mouse—to a mouse—a mouse—O mouse!” The Mouse looked at her rather in­quis­it­ively, and seemed to her to wink with one of its little eyes, but it said noth­ing.</p>
			<p>“Per­haps it doesn’t un­der­stand Eng­lish,” thought Alice; “I daresay it’s a French mouse, come over with Wil­liam the Con­queror.” (For, with all her know­ledge of his­tory, Alice had no very clear no­tion how long ago any­thing had happened.) So she began again: “Ou est ma chatte?” which was the first sen­tence in her French les­son-book. The Mouse gave a sud­den leap out of the wa­ter, and seemed to quiver all over with fright. “Oh, I beg your par­don!” cried Alice hast­ily, afraid that she had hurt the poor an­imal’s feel­ings. “I quite for­got you didn’t like cats.”</p>
			<p>“Not like cats!” cried the Mouse, in a shrill, pas­sion­ate voice. “Would <em>you</em> like cats if you were me?”</p>
			<p>“Well, per­haps not,” said Alice in a sooth­ing tone: “don’t be angry about it. And yet I wish I could show you our cat Di­nah: I think you’d take a fancy to cats if you could only see her. She is such a dear quiet thing,” Alice went on, half to her­self, as she swam lazily about in the pool, “and she sits purring so nicely by the fire, lick­ing her paws and wash­ing her face—and she is such a nice soft thing to nurse—and she’s such a cap­ital one for catch­ing mice—oh, I beg your par­don!” cried Alice again, for this time the Mouse was brist­ling all over, and she felt cer­tain it must be really of­fen­ded. “We won’t talk about her any more if you’d rather not.”</p>
			<p>“We in­deed!” cried the Mouse, who was trem­bling down to the end of his tail. “As if I would talk on such a sub­ject! Our fam­ily al­ways <em>hated</em> cats: nasty, low, vul­gar things! Don’t let me hear the name again!”</p>
			<p>“I won’t in­deed!” said Alice, in a great hurry to change the sub­ject of con­ver­sa­tion. “Are you—are you fond—of—of dogs?” The Mouse did not an­swer, so Alice went on eagerly: “There is such a nice little dog near our house I should like to show you! A little bright-eyed ter­rier, you know, with oh, such long curly brown hair! And it’ll fetch things when you throw them, and it’ll sit up and beg for its din­ner, and all sorts of things—I can’t re­mem­ber half of them—and it be­longs to a farmer, you know, and he says it’s so use­ful, it’s worth a hun­dred pounds! He says it kills all the rats and—oh dear!” cried Alice in a sor­row­ful tone, “I’m afraid I’ve of­fen­ded it again!” For the Mouse was swim­ming away from her as hard as it could go, and mak­ing quite a com­mo­tion in the pool as it went.</p>
			<p>So she called softly after it, “Mouse dear! Do come back again, and we won’t talk about cats or dogs either, if you don’t like them!” When the Mouse heard this, it turned round and swam slowly back to her: its face was quite pale (with pas­sion, Alice thought), and it said in a low trem­bling voice, “Let us get to the shore, and then I’ll tell you my his­tory, and you’ll un­der­stand why it is I hate cats and dogs.”</p>
			<p>It was high time to go, for the pool was get­ting quite crowded with the birds and an­im­als that had fallen into it: there were a Duck and a Dodo, a Lory and an Eag­let, and sev­eral other curi­ous creatures. Alice led the way, and the whole party swam to the shore.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
