<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-GB" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: http://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>Chapter 5: Advice From a Caterpillar</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-5" epub:type="chapter">
			<h2 epub:type="title">
				<span epub:type="z3998:roman">V</span>
				<span class="subtitle" epub:type="subtitle">Ad­vice From a Cater­pil­lar</span>
			</h2>
			<p>The Cater­pil­lar and Alice looked at each other for some time in si­lence: at last the Cater­pil­lar took the hookah out of its mouth, and ad­dressed her in a lan­guid, sleepy voice.</p>
			<p>“Who are <em>you?</em>” said the Cater­pil­lar.</p>
			<p>This was not an en­cour­aging open­ing for a con­ver­sa­tion. Alice replied, rather shyly, “I—I hardly know, sir, just at present—at least I know who I <em>was</em> when I got up this morn­ing, but I think I must have been changed sev­eral times since then.”</p>
			<p>“What do you mean by that?” said the Cater­pil­lar sternly. “Ex­plain your­self!”</p>
			<p>“I can’t ex­plain <em>my­self</em>, I’m afraid, sir,” said Alice, “be­cause I’m not my­self, you see.”</p>
			<p>“I don’t see,” said the Cater­pil­lar.</p>
			<p>“I’m afraid I can’t put it more clearly,” Alice replied very po­litely, “for I can’t un­der­stand it my­self to be­gin with; and be­ing so many dif­fer­ent sizes in a day is very con­fus­ing.”</p>
			<p>“It isn’t,” said the Cater­pil­lar.</p>
			<p>“Well, per­haps you haven’t found it so yet,” said Alice; “but when you have to turn into a chrysalis—you will some day, you know—and then after that into a but­ter­fly, I should think you’ll feel it a little queer, won’t you?”</p>
			<p>“Not a bit,” said the Cater­pil­lar.</p>
			<p>“Well, per­haps your feel­ings may be dif­fer­ent,” said Alice; “all I know is, it would feel very queer to <em>me</em>.”</p>
			<p>“You!” said the Cater­pil­lar con­temp­tu­ously. “Who are <em>you?</em>”</p>
			<p>Which brought them back again to the be­gin­ning of the con­ver­sa­tion. Alice felt a little ir­rit­ated at the Cater­pil­lar’s mak­ing such <em>very</em> short re­marks, and she drew her­self up and said, very gravely, “I think, you ought to tell me who you are, first.”</p>
			<p>“Why?” said the Cater­pil­lar.</p>
			<p>Here was an­other puzz­ling ques­tion; and as Alice could not think of any good reason, and as the Cater­pil­lar seemed to be in a <em>very</em> un­pleas­ant state of mind, she turned away.</p>
			<p>“Come back!” the Cater­pil­lar called after her. “I’ve some­thing im­port­ant to say!”</p>
			<p>This soun­ded prom­ising, cer­tainly: Alice turned and came back again.</p>
			<p>“Keep your tem­per,” said the Cater­pil­lar.</p>
			<p>“Is that all?” said Alice, swal­low­ing down her an­ger as well as she could.</p>
			<p>“No,” said the Cater­pil­lar.</p>
			<p>Alice thought she might as well wait, as she had noth­ing else to do, and per­haps after all it might tell her some­thing worth hear­ing. For some minutes it puffed away without speak­ing, but at last it un­fol­ded its arms, took the hookah out of its mouth again, and said, “So you think you’re changed, do you?”</p>
			<p>“I’m afraid I am, sir,” said Alice; “I can’t re­mem­ber things as I used—and I don’t keep the same size for ten minutes to­gether!”</p>
			<p>“Can’t re­mem­ber <em>what</em> things?” said the Cater­pil­lar.</p>
			<p>“Well, I’ve tried to say <q>‘<i>How doth the little busy bee,</i>’</q> but it all came dif­fer­ent!” Alice replied in a very mel­an­choly voice.</p>
			<p>“Repeat, <q>‘<i>you are old, Father Wil­liam,</i>’</q> ” said the Cater­pil­lar.</p>
			<p>Alice fol­ded her hands, and began:—</p>
			<blockquote class="z3998-poem" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<p class="first-child">
					<span>“You are old, Father Wil­liam,” the young man said,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">“And your hair has be­come very white;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And yet you in­cess­antly stand on your head—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Do you think, at your age, it is right?”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“In my youth,” Father Wil­liam replied to his son,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">“I feared it might in­jure the brain;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But, now that I’m per­fectly sure I have none,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Why, I do it again and again.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“You are old,” said the youth, “as I men­tioned be­fore,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">and have grown most un­com­monly fat;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Yet you turned a back-somer­sault in at the door—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Pray, what is the reason of that?”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“In my youth,” said the sage, as he shook his grey locks,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">“I kept all my limbs very supple</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By the use of this oint­ment—one shil­ling the box—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Al­low me to sell you a couple?”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“You are old,” said the youth, “and your jaws are too weak</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">For any­thing tougher than suet;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Yet you fin­ished the goose, with the bones and the beak—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Pray how did you man­age to do it?”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“In my youth,” said his father, “I took to the law,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And ar­gued each case with my wife;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the mus­cu­lar strength, which it gave to my jaw,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Has las­ted the rest of my life.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“You are old,” said the youth, “one would hardly sup­pose</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That your eye was as steady as ever;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Yet you bal­anced an eel on the end of your nose—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">What made you so aw­fully clever?”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“I have answered three ques­tions, and that is enough,”</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Said his father; “don’t give your­self airs!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Do you think I can listen all day to such stuff?</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Be off, or I’ll kick you down stairs!”</span>
				</p>
			</blockquote>
			<p>“That is not said right,” said the Cater­pil­lar.</p>
			<p>“Not <em>quite</em> right, I’m afraid,” said Alice, tim­idly; “some of the words have got altered.”</p>
			<p>“It is wrong from be­gin­ning to end,” said the Cater­pil­lar de­cidedly, and there was si­lence for some minutes.</p>
			<p>The Cater­pil­lar was the first to speak.</p>
			<p>“What size do you want to be?” it asked.</p>
			<p>“Oh, I’m not par­tic­u­lar as to size,” Alice hast­ily replied; “only one doesn’t like chan­ging so of­ten, you know.”</p>
			<p>“I <em>don’t</em> know,” said the Cater­pil­lar.</p>
			<p>Alice said noth­ing: she had never been so much con­tra­dicted in her life be­fore, and she felt that she was los­ing her tem­per.</p>
			<p>“Are you con­tent now?” said the Cater­pil­lar.</p>
			<p>“Well, I should like to be a <em>little</em> lar­ger, sir, if you wouldn’t mind,” said Alice: “three inches is such a wretched height to be.”</p>
			<p>“It is a very good height in­deed!” said the Cater­pil­lar an­grily, rear­ing it­self up­right as it spoke (it was ex­actly three inches high).</p>
			<p>“But I’m not used to it!” pleaded poor Alice in a piteous tone. And she thought of her­self, “I wish the creatures wouldn’t be so eas­ily of­fen­ded!”</p>
			<p>“You’ll get used to it in time,” said the Cater­pil­lar; and it put the hookah into its mouth and began smoking again.</p>
			<p>This time Alice waited pa­tiently un­til it chose to speak again. In a minute or two the Cater­pil­lar took the hookah out of its mouth and yawned once or twice, and shook it­self. Then it got down off the mush­room, and crawled away in the grass, merely re­mark­ing as it went, “One side will make you grow taller, and the other side will make you grow shorter.”</p>
			<p>“One side of <em>what?</em> The other side of what?” thought Alice to her­self.</p>
			<p>“Of the mush­room,” said the Cater­pil­lar, just as if she had asked it aloud; and in an­other mo­ment it was out of sight.</p>
			<p>Alice re­mained look­ing thought­fully at the mush­room for a minute, try­ing to make out which were the two sides of it; and as it was per­fectly round, she found this a very dif­fi­cult ques­tion. However, at last she stretched her arms round it as far as they would go, and broke off a bit of the edge with each hand.</p>
			<p>“And now which is which?” she said to her­self, and nibbled a little of the right-hand bit to try the ef­fect. The next mo­ment she felt a vi­ol­ent blow un­der­neath her chin: it had struck her foot!</p>
			<p>She was a good deal frightened by this very sud­den change, but she felt that there was no time to be lost, as she was shrink­ing rap­idly; so she set to work at once to eat some of the other bit. Her chin was pressed so closely against her foot, that there was hardly room to open her mouth; but she did it at last, and man­aged to swal­low a morsel of the left-hand bit.</p>
			<p>“Come, my head’s free at last!” said Alice in a tone of de­light, which changed into alarm in an­other mo­ment, when she found that her shoulders were nowhere to be found: all she could see, when she looked down, was an im­mense length of neck, which seemed to rise like a stalk out of a sea of green leaves that lay far be­low her.</p>
			<p>“What <em>can</em> all that green stuff be?” said Alice. “And where have my shoulders got to? And oh, my poor hands, how is it I can’t see you?” She was mov­ing them about as she spoke, but no res­ult seemed to fol­low, ex­cept a little shak­ing among the dis­tant green leaves.</p>
			<p>As there seemed to be no chance of get­ting her hands up to her head, she tried to get her head down to them, and was de­lighted to find that her neck would bend about eas­ily in any dir­ec­tion, like a ser­pent. She had just suc­ceeded in curving it down into a grace­ful zig­zag, and was go­ing to dive in among the leaves, which she found to be noth­ing but the tops of the trees un­der which she had been wan­der­ing, when a sharp hiss made her draw back in a hurry: a large pi­geon had flown into her face, and was beat­ing her vi­ol­ently with its wings.</p>
			<p>“Ser­pent!” screamed the Pi­geon.</p>
			<p>“I’m <em>not</em> a ser­pent!” said Alice in­dig­nantly. “Let me alone!”</p>
			<p>“Ser­pent, I say again!” re­peated the Pi­geon, but in a more sub­dued tone, and ad­ded with a kind of sob, “I’ve tried every way, and noth­ing seems to suit them!”</p>
			<p>“I haven’t the least idea what you’re talk­ing about,” said Alice.</p>
			<p>“I’ve tried the roots of trees, and I’ve tried banks, and I’ve tried hedges,” the Pi­geon went on, without at­tend­ing to her; “but those ser­pents! There’s no pleas­ing them!”</p>
			<p>Alice was more and more puzzled, but she thought there was no use in say­ing any­thing more till the Pi­geon had fin­ished.</p>
			<p>“As if it wasn’t trouble enough hatch­ing the eggs,” said the Pi­geon; “but I must be on the lookout for ser­pents night and day! Why, I haven’t had a wink of sleep these three weeks!”</p>
			<p>“I’m very sorry you’ve been an­noyed,” said Alice, who was be­gin­ning to see its mean­ing.</p>
			<p>“And just as I’d taken the highest tree in the wood,” con­tin­ued the Pi­geon, rais­ing its voice to a shriek, “and just as I was think­ing I should be free of them at last, they must needs come wrig­gling down from the sky! Ugh, Ser­pent!”</p>
			<p>“But I’m <em>not</em> a ser­pent, I tell you!” said Alice. “I’m a—I’m a—”</p>
			<p>“Well! <em>What</em> are you?” said the Pi­geon. “I can see you’re try­ing to in­vent some­thing!”</p>
			<p>“I—I’m a little girl,” said Alice, rather doubt­fully, as she re­membered the num­ber of changes she had gone through that day.</p>
			<p>“A likely story in­deed!” said the Pi­geon in a tone of the deep­est con­tempt. “I’ve seen a good many little girls in my time, but never <em>one</em> with such a neck as that! No, no! You’re a ser­pent; and there’s no use deny­ing it. I sup­pose you’ll be telling me next that you never tasted an egg!”</p>
			<p>“I <em>have</em> tasted eggs, cer­tainly,” said Alice, who was a very truth­ful child; “but little girls eat eggs quite as much as ser­pents do, you know.”</p>
			<p>“I don’t be­lieve it,” said the Pi­geon; “but if they do, why then they’re a kind of ser­pent, that’s all I can say.”</p>
			<p>This was such a new idea to Alice, that she was quite si­lent for a minute or two, which gave the Pi­geon the op­por­tun­ity of adding, “You’re look­ing for eggs, I know <em>that</em> well enough; and what does it mat­ter to me whether you’re a little girl or a ser­pent?”</p>
			<p>“It mat­ters a good deal to <em>me</em>,” said Alice hast­ily; “but I’m not look­ing for eggs, as it hap­pens; and if I was, I shouldn’t want yours: I don’t like them raw.”</p>
			<p>“Well, be off, then!” said the Pi­geon in a sulky tone, as it settled down again into its nest. Alice crouched down among the trees as well as she could, for her neck kept get­ting en­tangled among the branches, and every now and then she had to stop and un­twist it. After a while she re­membered that she still held the pieces of mush­room in her hands, and she set to work very care­fully, nib­bling first at one and then at the other, and grow­ing some­times taller and some­times shorter, un­til she had suc­ceeded in bring­ing her­self down to her usual height.</p>
			<p>It was so long since she had been any­thing near the right size, that it felt quite strange at first; but she got used to it in a few minutes, and began talk­ing to her­self, as usual. “Come, there’s half my plan done now! How puzz­ling all these changes are! I’m never sure what I’m go­ing to be, from one minute to an­other! However, I’ve got back to my right size: the next thing is, to get into that beau­ti­ful garden—how <em>is</em> that to be done, I won­der?” As she said this, she came sud­denly upon an open place, with a little house in it about four feet high. “Who­ever lives there,” thought Alice, “it’ll never do to come upon them this size: why, I should frighten them out of their wits!” So she began nib­bling at the righthand bit again, and did not ven­ture to go near the house till she had brought her­self down to nine inches high.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
