<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-GB" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: http://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>Chapter 9: The Mock Turtle’s Story</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-9" epub:type="chapter">
			<h2 epub:type="title">
				<span epub:type="z3998:roman">IX</span>
				<span class="subtitle" epub:type="subtitle">The Mock Turtle’s St­ory</span>
			</h2>
			<p>“You can’t think how glad I am to see you again, you dear old thing!” said the Duchess, as she tucked her arm af­fec­tion­ately into Alice’s, and they walked off to­gether.</p>
			<p>Alice was very glad to find her in such a pleas­ant tem­per, and thought to her­self that per­haps it was only the pep­per that had made her so sav­age when they met in the kit­chen.</p>
			<p>“When <em>I’m</em> a Duchess,” she said to her­self, (not in a very hope­ful tone though), “I won’t have any pep­per in my kit­chen at all. Soup does very well without—Maybe it’s al­ways pep­per that makes people hot-tempered,” she went on, very much pleased at hav­ing found out a new kind of rule, “and vin­egar that makes them sour—and cam­o­mile that makes them bit­ter—and—and bar­ley-sugar and such things that make chil­dren sweet-tempered. I only wish people knew that: then they wouldn’t be so stingy about it, you know—”</p>
			<p>She had quite for­got­ten the Duchess by this time, and was a little startled when she heard her voice close to her ear. “You’re think­ing about some­thing, my dear, and that makes you for­get to talk. I can’t tell you just now what the moral of that is, but I shall re­mem­ber it in a bit.”</p>
			<p>“Per­haps it hasn’t one,” Alice ven­tured to re­mark.</p>
			<p>“Tut, tut, child!” said the Duchess. “Everything’s got a moral, if only you can find it.” And she squeezed her­self up closer to Alice’s side as she spoke.</p>
			<p>Alice did not much like keep­ing so close to her: first, be­cause the Duchess was <em>very</em> ugly; and secondly, be­cause she was ex­actly the right height to rest her chin upon Alice’s shoulder, and it was an un­com­fort­ably sharp chin. However, she did not like to be rude, so she bore it as well as she could.</p>
			<p>“The game’s go­ing on rather bet­ter now,” she said, by way of keep­ing up the con­ver­sa­tion a little.</p>
			<p>“ ’Tis so,” said the Duchess: “and the moral of that is—‘Oh, ’tis love, ’tis love, that makes the world go round!’ ”</p>
			<p>“Some­body said,” Alice whispered, “that it’s done by every­body mind­ing their own busi­ness!”</p>
			<p>“Ah, well! It means much the same thing,” said the Duchess, dig­ging her sharp little chin into Alice’s shoulder as she ad­ded, “and the moral of <em>that</em> is—‘Take care of the sense, and the sounds will take care of them­selves.’ ”</p>
			<p>“How fond she is of find­ing mor­als in things!” Alice thought to her­self.</p>
			<p>“I dare say you’re won­der­ing why I don’t put my arm round your waist,” the Duchess said after a pause: “the reason is, that I’m doubt­ful about the tem­per of your flamingo. Shall I try the ex­per­i­ment?”</p>
			<p>“<em>He</em> might bite,” Alice cau­tiously replied, not feel­ing at all anxious to have the ex­per­i­ment tried.</p>
			<p>“Very true,” said the Duchess: “flamin­goes and mus­tard both bite. And the moral of that is—‘Birds of a feather flock to­gether.’ ”</p>
			<p>“Only mus­tard isn’t a bird,” Alice re­marked.</p>
			<p>“Right, as usual,” said the Duchess: “what a clear way you have of put­ting things!”</p>
			<p>“It’s a min­eral, I <em>think</em>,” said Alice.</p>
			<p>“Of course it is,” said the Duchess, who seemed ready to agree to everything that Alice said; “there’s a large mus­tard-mine near here. And the moral of that is—‘The more there is of mine, the less there is of yours.’ ”</p>
			<p>“Oh, I know!” ex­claimed Alice, who had not at­ten­ded to this last re­mark, “it’s a ve­get­able. It doesn’t look like one, but it is.”</p>
			<p>“I quite agree with you,” said the Duchess; “and the moral of that is—‘Be what you would seem to be’—or if you’d like it put more simply—‘Never ima­gine your­self not to be oth­er­wise than what it might ap­pear to oth­ers that what you were or might have been was not oth­er­wise than what you had been would have ap­peared to them to be oth­er­wise.’ ”</p>
			<p>“I think I should un­der­stand that bet­ter,” Alice said very po­litely, “if I had it writ­ten down: but I can’t quite fol­low it as you say it.”</p>
			<p>“That’s noth­ing to what I could say if I chose,” the Duchess replied, in a pleased tone.</p>
			<p>“Pray don’t trouble your­self to say it any longer than that,” said Alice.</p>
			<p>“Oh, don’t talk about trouble!” said the Duchess. “I make you a present of everything I’ve said as yet.”</p>
			<p>“A cheap sort of present!” thought Alice. “I’m glad they don’t give birth­day presents like that!” But she did not ven­ture to say it out loud.</p>
			<p>“Think­ing again?” the Duchess asked, with an­other dig of her sharp little chin.</p>
			<p>“I’ve a right to think,” said Alice sharply, for she was be­gin­ning to feel a little wor­ried.</p>
			<p>“Just about as much right,” said the Duchess, “as pigs have to fly; and the m—”</p>
			<p>But here, to Alice’s great sur­prise, the Duchess’s voice died away, even in the middle of her fa­vour­ite word “moral,” and the arm that was linked into hers began to tremble. Alice looked up, and there stood the Queen in front of them, with her arms fol­ded, frown­ing like a thun­der­storm.</p>
			<p>“A fine day, your Majesty!” the Duchess began in a low, weak voice.</p>
			<p>“Now, I give you fair warn­ing,” shouted the Queen, stamp­ing on the ground as she spoke; “either you or your head must be off, and that in about half no time! Take your choice!”</p>
			<p>The Duchess took her choice, and was gone in a mo­ment.</p>
			<p>“Let’s go on with the game,” the Queen said to Alice; and Alice was too much frightened to say a word, but slowly fol­lowed her back to the cro­quet-ground.</p>
			<p>The other guests had taken ad­vant­age of the Queen’s ab­sence, and were rest­ing in the shade: how­ever, the mo­ment they saw her, they hur­ried back to the game, the Queen merely re­mark­ing that a mo­ment’s delay would cost them their lives.</p>
			<p>All the time they were play­ing the Queen never left off quar­rel­ling with the other play­ers, and shout­ing “Off with his head!” or “Off with her head!” Those whom she sen­tenced were taken into cus­tody by the sol­diers, who of course had to leave off be­ing arches to do this, so that by the end of half an hour or so there were no arches left, and all the play­ers, ex­cept the King, the Queen, and Alice, were in cus­tody and un­der sen­tence of ex­e­cu­tion.</p>
			<p>Then the Queen left off, quite out of breath, and said to Alice, “Have you seen the Mock Turtle yet?”</p>
			<p>“No,” said Alice. “I don’t even know what a Mock Turtle is.”</p>
			<p>“It’s the thing Mock Turtle Soup is made from,” said the Queen.</p>
			<p>“I never saw one, or heard of one,” said Alice.</p>
			<p>“Come on, then,” said the Queen, “and he shall tell you his his­tory,”</p>
			<p>As they walked off to­gether, Alice heard the King say in a low voice, to the com­pany gen­er­ally, “You are all pardoned.” “Come, <em>that’s</em> a good thing!” she said to her­self, for she had felt quite un­happy at the num­ber of ex­e­cu­tions the Queen had ordered.</p>
			<p>They very soon came upon a Gryphon, ly­ing fast asleep in the sun. (If you don’t know what a Gryphon is, look at the pic­ture.) “Up, lazy thing!” said the Queen, “and take this young lady to see the Mock Turtle, and to hear his his­tory. I must go back and see after some ex­e­cu­tions I have ordered”; and she walked off, leav­ing Alice alone with the Gryphon. Alice did not quite like the look of the creature, but on the whole she thought it would be quite as safe to stay with it as to go after that sav­age Queen: so she waited.</p>
			<p>The Gryphon sat up and rubbed its eyes: then it watched the Queen till she was out of sight: then it chuckled. “What fun!” said the Gryphon, half to it­self, half to Alice.</p>
			<p>“What <em>is</em> the fun?” said Alice.</p>
			<p>“Why, <em>she</em>,” said the Gryphon. “It’s all her fancy, that: they never ex­ecutes nobody, you know. Come on!”</p>
			<p>“Every­body says ‘come on!’ here,” thought Alice, as she went slowly after it: “I never was so ordered about in all my life, never!”</p>
			<p>They had not gone far be­fore they saw the Mock Turtle in the dis­tance, sit­ting sad and lonely on a little ledge of rock, and, as they came nearer, Alice could hear him sigh­ing as if his heart would break. She pit­ied him deeply. “What is his sor­row?” she asked the Gryphon, and the Gryphon answered, very nearly in the same words as be­fore, “It’s all his fancy, that: he hasn’t got no sor­row, you know. Come on!”</p>
			<p>So they went up to the Mock Turtle, who looked at them with large eyes full of tears, but said noth­ing.</p>
			<p>“This here young lady,” said the Gryphon, “she wants for to know your his­tory, she do.”</p>
			<p>“I’ll tell it her,” said the Mock Turtle in a deep, hol­low tone: “sit down, both of you, and don’t speak a word till I’ve fin­ished.”</p>
			<p>So they sat down, and nobody spoke for some minutes. Alice thought to her­self, “I don’t see how he can <em>even</em> fin­ish, if he doesn’t be­gin.” But she waited pa­tiently.</p>
			<p>“Once,” said the Mock Turtle at last, with a deep sigh, “I was a real Turtle.”</p>
			<p>These words were fol­lowed by a very long si­lence, broken only by an oc­ca­sional ex­clam­a­tion of “Hjckrrh!” from the Gryphon, and the con­stant heavy sob­bing of the Mock Turtle. Alice was very nearly get­ting up and say­ing, “Thank you, sir, for your in­ter­est­ing story,” but she could not help think­ing there <em>must</em> be more to come, so she sat still and said noth­ing.</p>
			<p>“When we were little,” the Mock Turtle went on at last, more calmly, though still sob­bing a little now and then, “we went to school in the sea. The mas­ter was an old Turtle—we used to call him Tor­toise—”</p>
			<p>“Why did you call him Tor­toise, if he wasn’t one?” Alice asked.</p>
			<p>“We called him Tor­toise be­cause he taught us,” said the Mock Turtle an­grily: “really you are very dull!”</p>
			<p>“You ought to be ashamed of your­self for ask­ing such a simple ques­tion,” ad­ded the Gryphon; and then they both sat si­lent and looked at poor Alice, who felt ready to sink into the earth. At last the Gryphon said to the Mock Turtle, “Drive on, old fel­low! Don’t be all day about it!” and he went on in these words:</p>
			<p>“Yes, we went to school in the sea, though you mayn’t be­lieve it—”</p>
			<p>“I never said I didn’t!” in­ter­rup­ted Alice.</p>
			<p>“You did,” said the Mock Turtle.</p>
			<p>“Hold your tongue!” ad­ded the Gryphon, be­fore Alice could speak again. The Mock Turtle went on.</p>
			<p>“We had the best of edu­ca­tions—in fact, we went to school every day—”</p>
			<p>”<em>I’ve</em> been to a day-school, too,” said Alice; “you needn’t be so proud as all that.”</p>
			<p>“With ex­tras?” asked the Mock Turtle a little anxiously.</p>
			<p>“Yes,” said Alice, “we learned French and mu­sic.”</p>
			<p>“And wash­ing?” said the Mock Turtle.</p>
			<p>“Cer­tainly not!” said Alice in­dig­nantly.</p>
			<p>“Ah! then yours wasn’t a really good school,” said the Mock Turtle in a tone of great re­lief. “Now at <em>ours</em> they had at the end of the bill, ‘French, mu­sic, and wash­ing—ex­tra.’ ”</p>
			<p>“You couldn’t have wanted it much,” said Alice; “liv­ing at the bot­tom of the sea.”</p>
			<p>“I couldn’t af­ford to learn it,” said the Mock Turtle with a sigh. “I only took the reg­u­lar course.”</p>
			<p>“What was that?” in­quired Alice.</p>
			<p>“Reel­ing and Writh­ing, of course, to be­gin with,” the Mock Turtle replied; “and then the dif­fer­ent branches of Arith­metic—Am­bi­tion, Dis­trac­tion, Ugli­fic­a­tion, and Der­i­sion.”</p>
			<p>“I never heard of ‘Ugli­fic­a­tion,’ ” Alice ven­tured to say. “What is it?”</p>
			<p>The Gryphon lif­ted up both its paws in sur­prise. “What! Never heard of ug­li­fy­ing!” it ex­claimed. “You know what to beau­tify is, I sup­pose?”</p>
			<p>“Yes,” said Alice doubt­fully: “it means—to—make—any­thing—pret­tier.”</p>
			<p>“Well, then,” the Gryphon went on, “if you don’t know what to ug­lify is, you <em>are</em> a sim­pleton.”</p>
			<p>Alice did not feel en­cour­aged to ask any more ques­tions about it, so she turned to the Mock Turtle, and said “What else had you to learn?”</p>
			<p>“Well, there was Mys­tery,” the Mock Turtle replied, count­ing off the sub­jects on his flap­pers, “—Mys­tery, an­cient and mod­ern, with Seao­graphy: then Drawl­ing—the Drawl­ing-mas­ter was an old con­ger-eel, that used to come once a week: <em>He</em> taught us Drawl­ing, Stretch­ing, and Faint­ing in Coils.”</p>
			<p>“What was <em>that</em> like?” said Alice.</p>
			<p>“Well, I can’t show it you my­self,” the Mock Turtle said: “I’m too stiff. And the Gryphon never learnt it.”</p>
			<p>“Hadn’t time,” said the Gryphon: “I went to the Clas­sics mas­ter, though. He was an old crab, he was.”</p>
			<p>“I never went to him,” the Mock Turtle said with a sigh: “he taught Laugh­ing and Grief, they used to say.”</p>
			<p>“So he did, so he did,” said the Gryphon, sigh­ing in his turn; and both creatures hid their faces in their paws.</p>
			<p>“And how many hours a day did you do les­sons?” said Alice, in a hurry to change the sub­ject.</p>
			<p>“Ten hours the first day,” said the Mock Turtle: “nine the next, and so on.”</p>
			<p>“What a curi­ous plan!” ex­claimed Alice.</p>
			<p>“That’s the reason they’re called les­sons,” the Gryphon re­marked: “be­cause they lessen from day to day.”</p>
			<p>This was quite a new idea to Alice, and she thought it over a little be­fore she made her next re­mark. “Then the el­ev­enth day must have been a hol­i­day?”</p>
			<p>“Of course it was,” said the Mock Turtle.</p>
			<p>“And how did you man­age on the twelfth?” Alice went on eagerly.</p>
			<p>“That’s enough about les­sons,” the Gryphon in­ter­rup­ted in a very de­cided tone: “tell her some­thing about the games now.”</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
