<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-GB" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: http://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>Chapter 11: Who Stole the Tarts?</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-11" epub:type="chapter">
			<h2 epub:type="title">
				<span epub:type="z3998:roman">XI</span>
				<span class="subtitle" epub:type="subtitle">Who Stole the Tarts?</span>
			</h2>
			<p>The King and Queen of Hearts were seated on their throne when they ar­rived, with a great crowd as­sembled about them—all sorts of little birds and beasts, as well as the whole pack of cards: the Knave was stand­ing be­fore them, in chains, with a sol­dier on each side to guard him; and near the King was the White Rab­bit, with a trum­pet in one hand, and a scroll of parch­ment in the other. In the very middle of the court was a table, with a large dish of tarts upon it: they looked so good, that it made Alice quite hungry to look at them—“I wish they’d get the trial done,” she thought, “and hand round the re­fresh­ments!” But there seemed to be no chance of this, so she began look­ing at everything about her, to pass away the time.</p>
			<p>Alice had never been in a court of justice be­fore, but she had read about them in books, and she was quite pleased to find that she knew the name of nearly everything there. “That’s the judge,” she said to her­self, “be­cause of his great wig.”</p>
			<p>The judge, by the way, was the King; and as he wore his crown over the wig, (look at the frontis­piece if you want to see how he did it,) he did not look at all com­fort­able, and it was cer­tainly not be­com­ing.</p>
			<p>“And that’s the jury-box,” thought Alice, “and those twelve creatures,” (she was ob­liged to say “creatures,” you see, be­cause some of them were an­im­als, and some were birds,) “I sup­pose they are the jur­ors.” She said this last word two or three times over to her­self, be­ing rather proud of it: for she thought, and rightly too, that very few little girls of her age knew the mean­ing of it at all. However, “jury­men” would have done just as well.</p>
			<p>The twelve jur­ors were all writ­ing very busily on slates. “What are they do­ing?” Alice whispered to the Gryphon. “They can’t have any­thing to put down yet, be­fore the trial’s be­gun.”</p>
			<p>“They’re put­ting down their names,” the Gryphon whispered in reply, “for fear they should for­get them be­fore the end of the trial.”</p>
			<p>“Stu­pid things!” Alice began in a loud, in­dig­nant voice, but she stopped hast­ily, for the White Rab­bit cried out, “Si­lence in the court!” and the King put on his spec­tacles and looked anxiously round, to make out who was talk­ing.</p>
			<p>Alice could see, as well as if she were look­ing over their shoulders, that all the jur­ors were writ­ing down “stu­pid things!” on their slates, and she could even make out that one of them didn’t know how to spell “stu­pid,” and that he had to ask his neigh­bour to tell him. “A nice muddle their slates’ll be in be­fore the trial’s over!” thought Alice.</p>
			<p>One of the jur­ors had a pen­cil that squeaked. This of course, Alice could <em>not</em> stand, and she went round the court and got be­hind him, and very soon found an op­por­tun­ity of tak­ing it away. She did it so quickly that the poor little juror (it was Bill, the Liz­ard) could not make out at all what had be­come of it; so, after hunt­ing all about for it, he was ob­liged to write with one fin­ger for the rest of the day; and this was of very little use, as it left no mark on the slate.</p>
			<p>“Her­ald, read the ac­cus­a­tion!” said the King.</p>
			<p>On this the White Rab­bit blew three blasts on the trum­pet, and then un­rolled the parch­ment scroll, and read as fol­lows:—</p>
			<blockquote class="z3998-poem" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<p class="first-child">
					<span>“The Queen of Hearts, she made some tarts,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">All on a sum­mer day:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Knave of Hearts, he stole those tarts,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And took them quite away!”</span>
				</p>
			</blockquote>
			<p>“Con­sider your ver­dict,” the King said to the jury.</p>
			<p>“Not yet, not yet!” the Rab­bit hast­ily in­ter­rup­ted. “There’s a great deal to come be­fore that!”</p>
			<p>“Call the first wit­ness,” said the King; and the White Rab­bit blew three blasts on the trum­pet, and called out, “First wit­ness!”</p>
			<p>The first wit­ness was the Hat­ter. He came in with a tea­cup in one hand and a piece of bread-and-but­ter in the other. “I beg par­don, your Majesty,” he began, “for bring­ing these in: but I hadn’t quite fin­ished my tea when I was sent for.”</p>
			<p>“You ought to have fin­ished,” said the King. “When did you be­gin?”</p>
			<p>The Hat­ter looked at the March Hare, who had fol­lowed him into the court, arm-in-arm with the Dormouse. “Four­teenth of March, I <em>think</em> it was,” he said.</p>
			<p>“Fif­teenth,” said the March Hare.</p>
			<p>“Six­teenth,” ad­ded the Dormouse.</p>
			<p>“Write that down,” the King said to the jury, and the jury eagerly wrote down all three dates on their slates, and then ad­ded them up, and re­duced the an­swer to shil­lings and pence.</p>
			<p>“Take off your hat,” the King said to the Hat­ter.</p>
			<p>“It isn’t mine,” said the Hat­ter.</p>
			<p>“<em>Stolen!</em>” the King ex­claimed, turn­ing to the jury, who in­stantly made a memor­andum of the fact.</p>
			<p>“I keep them to sell,” the Hat­ter ad­ded as an ex­plan­a­tion; “I’ve none of my own. I’m a hat­ter.”</p>
			<p>Here the Queen put on her spec­tacles, and began star­ing at the Hat­ter, who turned pale and fid­geted.</p>
			<p>“Give your evid­ence,” said the King; “and don’t be nervous, or I’ll have you ex­ecuted on the spot.”</p>
			<p>This did not seem to en­cour­age the wit­ness at all: he kept shift­ing from one foot to the other, look­ing un­eas­ily at the Queen, and in his con­fu­sion he bit a large piece out of his tea­cup in­stead of the bread-and-but­ter.</p>
			<p>Just at this mo­ment Alice felt a very curi­ous sen­sa­tion, which puzzled her a good deal un­til she made out what it was: she was be­gin­ning to grow lar­ger again, and she thought at first she would get up and leave the court; but on second thoughts she de­cided to re­main where she was as long as there was room for her.</p>
			<p>“I wish you wouldn’t squeeze so.” said the Dormouse, who was sit­ting next to her. “I can hardly breathe.”</p>
			<p>“I can’t help it,” said Alice very meekly: “I’m grow­ing.”</p>
			<p>“You’ve no right to grow <em>here</em>,” said the Dormouse.</p>
			<p>“Don’t talk non­sense,” said Alice more boldly: “you know you’re grow­ing too.”</p>
			<p>“Yes, but <em>I</em> grow at a reas­on­able pace,” said the Dormouse: “not in that ri­dicu­lous fash­ion.” And he got up very sulkily and crossed over to the other side of the court.</p>
			<p>All this time the Queen had never left off star­ing at the Hat­ter, and, just as the Dormouse crossed the court, she said to one of the of­ficers of the court, “Bring me the list of the sing­ers in the last con­cert!” on which the wretched Hat­ter trembled so, that he shook both his shoes off.</p>
			<p>“Give your evid­ence,” the King re­peated an­grily, “or I’ll have you ex­ecuted, whether you’re nervous or not.”</p>
			<p>“I’m a poor man, your Majesty,” the Hat­ter began, in a trem­bling voice, “—and I hadn’t be­gun my tea—not above a week or so—and what with the bread-and-but­ter get­ting so thin—and the twink­ling of the tea—”</p>
			<p>“The twink­ling of the <em>what</em>?” said the King.</p>
			<p>“It <em>began</em> with the tea,” the Hat­ter replied.</p>
			<p>“Of course twink­ling <em>be­gins</em> with a T!” said the King sharply. “Do you take me for a dunce? Go on!”</p>
			<p>“I’m a poor man,” the Hat­ter went on, “and most things twinkled after that—only the March Hare said—”</p>
			<p>“I didn’t!” the March Hare in­ter­rup­ted in a great hurry.</p>
			<p>“You did!” said the Hat­ter.</p>
			<p>“I deny it!” said the March Hare.</p>
			<p>“He denies it,” said the King: “leave out that part.”</p>
			<p>“Well, at any rate, the Dormouse said—” the Hat­ter went on, look­ing anxiously round to see if he would deny it too: but the Dormouse denied noth­ing, be­ing fast asleep.</p>
			<p>“After that,” con­tin­ued the Hat­ter, “I cut some more bread-and-but­ter—”</p>
			<p>“But what did the Dormouse say?” one of the jury asked.</p>
			<p>“That I can’t re­mem­ber,” said the Hat­ter.</p>
			<p>“You <em>must</em> re­mem­ber,” re­marked the King, “or I’ll have you ex­ecuted.”</p>
			<p>The miser­able Hat­ter dropped his tea­cup and bread-and-but­ter, and went down on one knee. “I’m a poor man, your Majesty,” he began.</p>
			<p>“You’re a very poor <em>speaker</em>,” said the King.</p>
			<p>Here one of the guinea-pigs cheered, and was im­me­di­ately sup­pressed by the of­ficers of the court. (As that is rather a hard word, I will just ex­plain to you how it was done. They had a large can­vas bag, which tied up at the mouth with strings: into this they slipped the guinea-pig, head first, and then sat upon it.)</p>
			<p>“I’m glad I’ve seen that done,” thought Alice. “I’ve so of­ten read in the news­pa­pers, at the end of tri­als, ‘There was some at­tempts at ap­plause, which was im­me­di­ately sup­pressed by the of­ficers of the court,’ and I never un­der­stood what it meant till now.”</p>
			<p>“If that’s all you know about it, you may stand down,” con­tin­ued the King.</p>
			<p>“I can’t go no lower,” said the Hat­ter: “I’m on the floor, as it is.”</p>
			<p>“Then you may <em>sit</em> down,” the King replied.</p>
			<p>Here the other guinea-pig cheered, and was sup­pressed.</p>
			<p>“Come, that fin­ished the guinea-pigs!” thought Alice. “Now we shall get on bet­ter.”</p>
			<p>“I’d rather fin­ish my tea,” said the Hat­ter, with an anxious look at the Queen, who was read­ing the list of sing­ers.</p>
			<p>“You may go,” said the King, and the Hat­ter hur­riedly left the court, without even wait­ing to put his shoes on.</p>
			<p>“—and just take his head off out­side,” the Queen ad­ded to one of the of­ficers: but the Hat­ter was out of sight be­fore the of­ficer could get to the door.</p>
			<p>“Call the next wit­ness!” said the King.</p>
			<p>The next wit­ness was the Duchess’s cook. She car­ried the pep­per-box in her hand, and Alice guessed who it was, even be­fore she got into the court, by the way the people near the door began sneez­ing all at once.</p>
			<p>“Give your evid­ence,” said the King.</p>
			<p>“Shan’t,” said the cook.</p>
			<p>The King looked anxiously at the White Rab­bit, who said in a low voice, “Your Majesty must cross-ex­am­ine <em>this</em> wit­ness.”</p>
			<p>“Well, if I must, I must,” the King said, with a mel­an­choly air, and, after fold­ing his arms and frown­ing at the cook till his eyes were nearly out of sight, he said in a deep voice, “What are tarts made of?”</p>
			<p>“Pep­per, mostly,” said the cook.</p>
			<p>“Treacle,” said a sleepy voice be­hind her.</p>
			<p>“Col­lar that Dormouse,” the Queen shrieked out. “Be­head that Dormouse! Turn that Dormouse out of court! Sup­press him! Pinch him! Off with his whiskers!”</p>
			<p>For some minutes the whole court was in con­fu­sion, get­ting the Dormouse turned out, and, by the time they had settled down again, the cook had dis­ap­peared.</p>
			<p>“Never mind!” said the King, with an air of great re­lief. “Call the next wit­ness.” And he ad­ded in an un­der­tone to the Queen, “Really, my dear, <em>you</em> must cross-ex­am­ine the next wit­ness. It quite makes my fore­head ache!”</p>
			<p>Alice watched the White Rab­bit as he fumbled over the list, feel­ing very curi­ous to see what the next wit­ness would be like, “—for they haven’t got much evid­ence <em>yet</em>,” she said to her­self. Ima­gine her sur­prise, when the White Rab­bit read out, at the top of his shrill little voice, the name “Alice!”</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
