<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-GB" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: http://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>Chapter 12: Alice’s Evidence</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-12" epub:type="chapter">
			<h2 epub:type="title">
				<span epub:type="z3998:roman">XII</span>
				<span class="subtitle" epub:type="subtitle">Alice’s Evid­ence</span>
			</h2>
			<p>“Here!” cried Alice, quite for­get­ting in the flurry of the mo­ment how large she had grown in the last few minutes, and she jumped up in such a hurry that she tipped over the jury-box with the edge of her skirt, up­set­ting all the jury­men on to the heads of the crowd be­low, and there they lay sprawl­ing about, re­mind­ing her very much of a globe of gold­fish she had ac­ci­dent­ally up­set the week be­fore.</p>
			<p>“Oh, I <em>beg</em> your par­don!” she ex­claimed in a tone of great dis­may, and began pick­ing them up again as quickly as she could, for the ac­ci­dent of the gold­fish kept run­ning in her head, and she had a vague sort of idea that they must be col­lec­ted at once and put back into the jury-box, or they would die.</p>
			<p>“The trial can­not pro­ceed,” said the King in a very grave voice, “un­til all the jury­men are back in their proper places—<em>all</em>,” he re­peated with great em­phasis, look­ing hard at Alice as he said do.</p>
			<p>Alice looked at the jury-box, and saw that, in her haste, she had put the Liz­ard in head down­wards, and the poor little thing was wav­ing its tail about in a mel­an­choly way, be­ing quite un­able to move. She soon got it out again, and put it right; “not that it sig­ni­fies much,” she said to her­self; “I should think it would be <em>quite</em> as much use in the trial one way up as the other.”</p>
			<p>As soon as the jury had a little re­covered from the shock of be­ing up­set, and their slates and pen­cils had been found and handed back to them, they set to work very di­li­gently to write out a his­tory of the ac­ci­dent, all ex­cept the Liz­ard, who seemed too much over­come to do any­thing but sit with its mouth open, gaz­ing up into the roof of the court.</p>
			<p>“What do you know about this busi­ness?” the King said to Alice.</p>
			<p>“Noth­ing,” said Alice.</p>
			<p>“Noth­ing <em>whatever?</em>” per­sisted the King.</p>
			<p>“Noth­ing <em>whatever</em>,” said Alice.</p>
			<p>“That’s very im­port­ant,” the King said, turn­ing to the jury. They were just be­gin­ning to write this down on their slates, when the White Rab­bit in­ter­rup­ted: “<em>Un</em>im­port­ant, your Majesty means, of course,” he said in a very re­spect­ful tone, but frown­ing and mak­ing faces at him as he spoke.</p>
			<p>”<em>Un</em>im­port­ant, of course, I meant,” the King hast­ily said, and went on to him­self in an un­der­tone, “im­port­ant—un­im­port­ant—un­im­port­ant—im­port­ant—” as if he were try­ing which word soun­ded best.</p>
			<p>Some of the jury wrote it down “im­port­ant,” and some “un­im­port­ant.” Alice could see this, as she was near enough to look over their slates; “but it doesn’t mat­ter a bit,” she thought to her­self.</p>
			<p>At this mo­ment the King, who had been for some time busily writ­ing in his note­book, cackled out “Si­lence!” and read out from his book, “Rule Forty-two. <em>All per­sons more than a mile high to leave the court.</em>”</p>
			<p>Every­body looked at Alice.</p>
			<p>“<em>I’m</em> not a mile high,” said Alice.</p>
			<p>“You are,” said the King.</p>
			<p>“Nearly two miles high,” ad­ded the Queen.</p>
			<p>“Well, I shan’t go, at any rate,” said Alice: “be­sides, that’s not a reg­u­lar rule: you in­ven­ted it just now.”</p>
			<p>“It’s the old­est rule in the book,” said the King.</p>
			<p>“Then it ought to be Num­ber One,” said Alice.</p>
			<p>The King turned pale, and shut his note­book hast­ily. “Con­sider your ver­dict,” he said to the jury, in a low, trem­bling voice.</p>
			<p>“There’s more evid­ence to come yet, please your Majesty,” said the White Rab­bit, jump­ing up in a great hurry; “this pa­per has just been picked up.”</p>
			<p>“What’s in it?” said the Queen.</p>
			<p>“I haven’t opened it yet,” said the White Rab­bit, “but it seems to be a let­ter, writ­ten by the pris­oner to—to some­body.”</p>
			<p>“It must have been that,” said the King, “un­less it was writ­ten to nobody, which isn’t usual, you know.”</p>
			<p>“Who is it dir­ec­ted to?” said one of the jury­men.</p>
			<p>“It isn’t dir­ec­ted at all,” said the White Rab­bit; “in fact, there’s noth­ing writ­ten on the <em>out­side</em>.” He un­fol­ded the pa­per as he spoke, and ad­ded “It isn’t a let­ter, after all: it’s a set of verses.”</p>
			<p>“Are they in the pris­oner’s hand­writ­ing?” asked an­other of they jury­men.</p>
			<p>“No, they’re not,” said the White Rab­bit, “and that’s the queerest thing about it.” (The jury all looked puzzled.)</p>
			<p>“He must have im­it­ated some­body else’s hand,” said the King. (The jury all brightened up again.)</p>
			<p>“Please your Majesty,” said the Knave, “I didn’t write it, and they can’t prove I did: there’s no name signed at the end.”</p>
			<p>“If you didn’t sign it,” said the King, “that only makes the mat­ter worse. You <em>must</em> have meant some mis­chief, or else you’d have signed your name like an hon­est man.”</p>
			<p>There was a gen­eral clap­ping of hands at this: it was the first really clever thing the King had said that day.</p>
			<p>“That <em>proves</em> his guilt,” said the Queen.</p>
			<p>“It proves noth­ing of the sort!” said Alice. “Why, you don’t even know what they’re about!”</p>
			<p>“Read them,” said the King.</p>
			<p>The White Rab­bit put on his spec­tacles. “Where shall I be­gin, please your Majesty?” he asked.</p>
			<p>“Be­gin at the be­gin­ning,” the King said gravely, “and go on till you come to the end: then stop.”</p>
			<p>These were the verses the White Rab­bit read:—</p>
			<blockquote class="z3998-poem" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<p class="first-child">
					<span>“They told me you had been to her,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And men­tioned me to him:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>She gave me a good char­ac­ter,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">But said I could not swim.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>He sent them word I had not gone</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">(We know it to be true):</span>
					<br/>
					<span>If she should push the mat­ter on,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">What would be­come of you?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I gave her one, they gave him two,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">You gave us three or more;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They all re­turned from him to you,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Though they were mine be­fore.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>If I or she should chance to be</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">In­volved in this af­fair,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He trusts to you to set them free,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Ex­actly as we were.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>My no­tion was that you had been</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">(Be­fore she had this fit)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>An obstacle that came between</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Him, and ourselves, and it.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Don’t let him know she liked them best,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">For this must ever be</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A secret, kept from all the rest,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Between your­self and me.”</span>
				</p>
			</blockquote>
			<p>“That’s the most im­port­ant piece of evid­ence we’ve heard yet,” said the King, rub­bing his hands; “so now let the jury—”</p>
			<p>“If any one of them can ex­plain it,” said Alice, (she had grown so large in the last few minutes that she wasn’t a bit afraid of in­ter­rupt­ing him,) “I’ll give him six­pence. <em>I</em> don’t be­lieve there’s an atom of mean­ing in it.”</p>
			<p>The jury all wrote down on their slates, “<em>She</em> doesn’t be­lieve there’s an atom of mean­ing in it,” but none of them at­temp­ted to ex­plain the pa­per.</p>
			<p>“If there’s no mean­ing in it,” said the King, “that saves a world of trouble, you know, as we needn’t try to find any. And yet I don’t know,” he went on, spread­ing out the verses on his knee, and look­ing at them with one eye; “I seem to see some mean­ing in them, after all. ‘<em>—said I could not swim—</em>’ you can’t swim, can you?” he ad­ded, turn­ing to the Knave.</p>
			<p>The Knave shook his head sadly. “Do I look like it?” he said. (Which he cer­tainly did <em>not</em>, be­ing made en­tirely of card­board.)</p>
			<p>“All right, so far,” said the King, and he went on mut­ter­ing over the verses to him­self: “ ‘<em>We know it to be true—</em>’ that’s the jury, of course—‘I gave her one, they gave him two—’ why, that must be what he did with the tarts, you know—”</p>
			<p>“But, it goes on ‘<em>they all re­turned from him to you</em>,’ ” said Alice.</p>
			<p>“Why, there they are!” said the King tri­umphantly, point­ing to the tarts on the table. “Noth­ing can be clearer than <em>that</em>. Then again—‘be­fore she had this fit—’ you never had fits, my dear, I think?” he said to the Queen.</p>
			<p>“Never!” said the Queen furi­ously, throw­ing an ink­stand at the Liz­ard as she spoke. (The un­for­tu­nate little Bill had left off writ­ing on his slate with one fin­ger, as he found it made no mark; but he now hast­ily began again, us­ing the ink, that was trick­ling down his face, as long as it las­ted.)</p>
			<p>“Then the words don’t <em>fit</em> you,” said the King, look­ing round the court with a smile. There was a dead si­lence.</p>
			<p>“It’s a pun!” the King ad­ded in an of­fen­ded tone, and every­body laughed, “Let the jury con­sider their ver­dict,” the King said, for about the twen­ti­eth time that day.</p>
			<p>“No, no!” said the Queen. “Sen­tence first—ver­dict af­ter­wards.”</p>
			<p>“Stuff and non­sense!” said Alice loudly. “The idea of hav­ing the sen­tence first!”</p>
			<p>“Hold your tongue!” said the Queen, turn­ing purple.</p>
			<p>“I won’t!” said Alice.</p>
			<p>“Off with her head!” the Queen shouted at the top of her voice. Nobody moved.</p>
			<p>“Who cares for you?” said Alice, (she had grown to her full size by this time.) “You’re noth­ing but a pack of cards!”</p>
			<p>At this the whole pack rose up into the air, and came fly­ing down upon her: she gave a little scream, half of fright and half of an­ger, and tried to beat them off, and found her­self ly­ing on the bank, with her head in the lap of her sis­ter, who was gently brush­ing away some dead leaves that had fluttered down from the trees upon her face.</p>
			<p>“Wake up, Alice dear!” said her sis­ter; “Why, what a long sleep you’ve had!”</p>
			<p>“Oh, I’ve had such a curi­ous dream!” said Alice, and she told her sis­ter, as well as she could re­mem­ber them, all these strange Ad­ven­tures of hers that you have just been read­ing about; and when she had fin­ished, her sis­ter kissed her, and said, “It <em>was</em> a curi­ous dream, dear, cer­tainly: but now run in to your tea; it’s get­ting late.” So Alice got up and ran off, think­ing while she ran, as well she might, what a won­der­ful dream it had been.</p>
			<p>But her sis­ter sat still just as she left her, lean­ing her head on her hand, watch­ing the set­ting sun, and think­ing of little Alice and all her won­der­ful Ad­ven­tures, till she too began dream­ing after a fash­ion, and this was her dream:—</p>
			<p>First, she dreamed of little Alice her­self, and once again the tiny hands were clasped upon her knee, and the bright eager eyes were look­ing up into hers—she could hear the very tones of her voice, and see that queer little toss of her head to keep back the wan­der­ing hair that <em>would</em> al­ways get into her eyes—and still as she listened, or seemed to listen, the whole place around her be­came alive the strange creatures of her little sis­ter’s dream.</p>
			<p>The long grass rustled at her feet as the White Rab­bit hur­ried by—the frightened Mouse splashed his way through the neigh­bour­ing pool—she could hear the rattle of the tea­cups as the March Hare and his friends shared their never-end­ing meal, and the shrill voice of the Queen or­der­ing off her un­for­tu­nate guests to ex­e­cu­tion—once more the pig-baby was sneez­ing on the Duchess’s knee, while plates and dishes crashed around it—once more the shriek of the Gryphon, the squeak­ing of the Liz­ard’s slate-pen­cil, and the chok­ing of the sup­pressed guinea-pigs, filled the air, mixed up with the dis­tant sobs of the miser­able Mock Turtle.</p>
			<p>So she sat on, with closed eyes, and half be­lieved her­self in Won­der­land, though she knew she had but to open them again, and all would change to dull real­ity—the grass would be only rust­ling in the wind, and the pool rip­pling to the wav­ing of the reeds—the rat­tling tea­cups would change to tink­ling sheep-bells, and the Queen’s shrill cries to the voice of the shep­herd boy—and the sneeze of the baby, the shriek of the Gryphon, and all the other queer noises, would change (she knew) to the con­fused clam­our of the busy farm­yard—while the low­ing of the cattle in the dis­tance would take the place of the Mock Turtle’s heavy sobs.</p>
			<p>Lastly, she pic­tured to her­self how this same little sis­ter of hers would, in the af­ter­time, be her­self a grown wo­man; and how she would keep, through all her riper years, the simple and lov­ing heart of her child­hood: and how she would gather about her other little chil­dren, and make <em>their</em> eyes bright and eager with many a strange tale, per­haps even with the dream of Won­der­land of long ago: and how she would feel with all their simple sor­rows, and find a pleas­ure in all their simple joys, re­mem­ber­ing her own child-life, and the happy sum­mer days.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
