<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-US" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: http://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Uncopyright</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="backmatter">
		<section class="copyright-page" id="uncopyright" epub:type="copyright-page">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Un­copy­right</h2>
			<blockquote class="z3998-verse" epub:type="z3998:verse">
				<p class="first-child">
					<span>May you do good and not evil.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>May you find for­give­ness for your­self and for­give oth­ers.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>May you share freely, never tak­ing more than you give.</span>
				</p>
			</blockquote>
			<p>Copy­right pages ex­ist to tell you <em>can’t</em> do some­thing. Un­like them, this Un­copy­right page ex­ists to tell you, among other things, that the writ­ing and art­work in this ebook are be­lieved to be in the U.S. pub­lic do­main. The U.S. pub­lic do­main rep­re­sents our col­lec­tive cul­tural her­itage, and items in it are free for any­one in the U.S. to do al­most any­thing at all with, with­out hav­ing to get per­mis­sion. Public do­main items are free of copy­right re­stric­tions.</p>
			<p>Copy­right laws are dif­fer­ent around the world. If you’re not lo­cated in the U.S., check with your lo­cal laws be­fore us­ing this ebook.</p>
			<p>Non-au­thor­ship ac­tiv­i­ties per­formed on pub­lic do­main items—so-called “sweat of the brow” work—don’t cre­ate a new copy­right. That means no­body can claim a new copy­right on a pub­lic do­main item for work like dig­i­ti­za­tion, markup, or ty­pog­ra­phy. Re­gard­less, to dis­pel any pos­si­ble doubt on the copy­right sta­tus of this ebook, Stan­dard Ebooks and its con­trib­u­tors re­lease this ebook un­der the terms in the <a href="https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/">CC0 1.0 Univer­sal Public Do­main Ded­i­ca­tion</a>, thus ded­i­cat­ing to the world­wide pub­lic do­main all of the work they’ve done on this ebook, in­clud­ing but not lim­ited to meta­data, the ti­tlepage, im­print, colophon, this Un­copy­right, and any changes or en­hance­ments to, or markup on, the orig­i­nal text and art­work. This ded­i­ca­tion doesn’t change the copy­right sta­tus of the un­der­ly­ing works, which, though be­lieved to al­ready be in the U.S. pub­lic do­main, may not yet be in the pub­lic do­main of other coun­tries. We make this ded­i­ca­tion in the in­ter­est of en­rich­ing our global cul­tural her­itage, to pro­mote free and li­bre cul­ture around the world, and to give back to the un­re­stricted cul­ture that has given all of us so much.</p>
			<p>
				<strong>Stan­dard Ebooks and its con­trib­u­tors of­fer this ebook as-is and make no rep­re­sen­ta­tions or war­ranties of any kind con­cern­ing this ebook, ex­press, im­plied, statu­tory or oth­er­wise, in­clud­ing with­out lim­i­ta­tion war­ranties of ti­tle, mer­chantabil­ity, fit­ness for a par­tic­u­lar pur­pose, non in­fringe­ment, or the ab­sence of la­tent or other de­fects, ac­cu­racy, or the present or ab­sence of er­rors, whether or not dis­cov­er­able, all to the great­est ex­tent per­mis­si­ble un­der ap­pli­ca­ble law.</strong>
			</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
